Grumpy: (while driving) Three of a kind, let's do this.

Chuckles: That's it? Three guys?

Grumpy: Two guys on the roof. Every guy gets a share. Five shares is plenty.

Chuckles: Six shares. Don't forget the guy who planned the job.

Grumpy: (scoffing) He thinks he can sit it out and still take a slice. I know why they call him the Joker.

[On the rooftop is another chat going on, between the clowns which, according to the script, are dubbed "Happy" and "Dopey". They are trying to open up an access panel]

Happy: So, why do they call him the Joker?

Dopey: I heard he wears makeup.

Happy: Makeup?

Dopey: Yeah, to scare people. Y'know, war paint.

[The three clowns get out of their car, holding guns. One of them fires rapidly in the air, shocking the customers. The bank manager, sitting out of sight, looks around in confusion]

Grumpy: (taking the lead) All right, everybody, hands up, heads down! I said, hands up, heads down! (pulling one of the employees over the desk) Let's go, pal, I'm making a withdrawal here. (running to another employee) I said, hands up!

Female Employee: No!

[At the Bank's rooftop, Dopey is rewiring cables, trying to disconnect its security system. Happy stands right behind him]

Dopey: Here comes the silent alarm. And there it goes.

[The silent clown, Bozo, opens his duffel bag, revealing several grenades. Grumpy continues to intimidate]

Grumpy: Heads down! (dragging the other employee onto the floor) All right, tootsie, you're taking a dive with me. Down! I said, stay down there!

Female Employee: Don't hurt me!

[Back to the rooftop]

Dopey: Funny, it didn't dial 911. It was trying to reach a private number.

Happy: Is it a problem?

Dopey: No, I'm done here.

[It happens in a flash. Happy shoots Dopey in the back, killing him instantly. Happy then grabs his equipment and runs down several stairs, entering the Bank]

Grumpy: Sit down! Down! Down! I said, stay down there!

[Happy has reached the vault. Bozo hands the hostages grenades, seemingly ready to detonate. Meanwhile, the bank manager seems to have regained his composure, taking of his glasses]

Grumpy: Obviously, we don't want you doing anything with your hands other than holding on for dear life.

[Happy holds up a mechanical drill. He locks it onto the metal door and activates it]

Chuckles: (thwacking a hostage with his gun, waving it) On the ground! Stay on the ground! Nobody make a move! Nobody! Stay down!

[Behind him, the manager slowly turns around. Glass shatters, Chuckles collapses. The bank manager, holding a shotgun, steps forward. Bozo skits over the floor, hiding behind a counter with Grumpy, while their adversary walks towards them, firing round after round, grunting]

Bank Manager: (holds his fire) You have any idea who you're stealing from?! You and your friends are dead!

Grumpy: He's out, right?

[Bozo looks up, seems to think, and then nods. Grumpy gets up, only for the bank manager to fire his last round. With the opposing force without any defence, Bozo shoots the bank manager in the chest, causing him to collapse to the ground. The clown lightly turns his head while Grumpy gets back up, only suffering a flesh wound at his shoulder]

Grumpy: (frustrated) Where did you learn to count?!

[The wounded clown then joins his colleague at the vault]

Happy: They wired this thing up with like five thousand volts. What kind of bank does that?

Grumpy: A Mob bank. I guess the Joker's as crazy as they say. Where's the alarm guy?

Happy: Boss told me when the guy was done, I should take him out. One less share, right?

[Happy pulls the handle. The safe slowly opens]

Grumpy: Funny. He told me something similar...

Happy: He what? No! No!

[Grumpy raises his gun and kills Happy, while Bozo walks among the hostages. The other remaining clown runs into the safe and quickly bags as much money into his bag as he can. He and Bozo drag the bags over the floor]

Grumpy: That's a lot of money. If this Joker guy was so smart, he'd have had us bring a bigger car.

[Bozo freezes when his colleague arms his gun]

Grumpy: I'm betting the Joker told you to kill me soon as we loaded the cash.

Bozo: (sighs, looks on his watch) No, no, no, no, I kill the bus driver.

[He takes a step aside. Grumpy seems confused, but continues to hold up his gun]

Grumpy: Bus driver?

[Bozo takes one more step]

Grumpy: What bus driver?!

[Unfortunately for him, that question is answered when the backside of a school bus breaks through the front doors of the Bank. The velocity knocks Grumpy away, killing him instantly. The door opens, one more clown thug jumps out of the vehicle. As the credits fail to give the guy a name, I'm gonna go with Peppy]

Peppy: School's out. Time to go. (looking at Grumpy) That guy's not getting up, is he?

[He helps Bozo throwing the money bags into the school bus]

Peppy: (grunting) That's a lot of money.

[After throwing two more in the back, there is a brief pause]

Peppy: What happened to the rest of the guys?

[Bozo dispatches of Peppy by firing several gunshots at his chest without looking. The remaining clown walks over to the other money bags while the bank manager, severly injured but alive, tries to get his attention]

Bank Manager: You think you're smart, huh? (coughs) The guy that hired youse... He'll just do the same to you.

[Bozo walks over to the yelling man]

Bank Manager: Oh, criminals in this town used to believe in things. Honor. Respect. Look at you. What do you believe in, huh? What do you believe in?!

[That last word is muffled when the clown pushes a grenade into the man's mouth]

Bozo: I believe... whatever doesn't kill you simply makes you...

[Bozo takes off his mask, revealing himself as the Joker. The bank manager's eyes widen in horror]

Joker: ...stranger.

[The demented clown grins and walks back to the bus, having tied a loose thread of his jacket around the grenade pin. He throws the manager's shotgun and his mask in the vehicle, closes the door and jumps along the seats inside to the driver's seat. As the bus drives away, the pin is pulled. After a few seconds, gas emits out of the grenade, revealing it to be fake. A classic Joker prank. The manager groans in relief. Outside, the bus joins several other school buses, creating enough of a distraction for when the cops arrive]

Mike Engel: Mr. Mayor, you were elected in a campaign to clean up the city. When are you gonna start?

Mayor: I already have.

Mike Engel: Like this Batman. We're hearing he's doing good, criminals are running scared.

Goon: (seeing the Bat Signal) No, man. I don't like it tonight.

Cargo Driver: What are you, superstitious? You got more chance of winning the Powerball than running into him!

Mayor: That's not true. Our men in the Major Crimes Unit are close to an arrest.

Ramirez: Hey, Wuertz, mayor says you're closing in on the Batman.

Wuertz: The investigation is ongoing.

[The older cop throws a piece of paper in the garbage bin. On the list of Batman suspects, we see pictures of Elvis Presley and Abraham Lincoln. Top class picks right there.]

Mayor: The process of cleaning up the streets is a long one. I pledged in my campaign, uh, to have...

[Lieutenant Gordon stands on the roof of his police unit, next to the shining Bat Signal. Ramirez joins him, handing him a cup of coffee]

Ramirez: Ever intending to see your wife again, lieutenant?

Gordon: I thought you had to go look after your mother, detective.

Ramirez: Checked her back into the hospital.

Gordon: I'm sorry.

Ramirez: (looking up) So he hasn't shown up?

Gordon: He often doesn't. I like reminding everybody he's out there.

Ramirez: Why wouldn't he come?

Gordon: Hopefully... because he's busy.

[We cut to a parking garage]

Chechen: That's why we bring dogs. (petting one of them) My little princes.

Junkie: Please! Please, they're crawling in my mouth! Please, I beg you, get them off!

Chechen: Look what your drugs do to my customers.

Scarecrow: Buyer beware. (climbing out of his truck) I told you my compound would take you places. I never said they'd be places you wanted to go.

Chechen: My business, repeat customers.

Scarecrow: You don't like what I have to offer, you can buy from someone else. Assuming Batman left anyone to buy from.

[The dogs the criminal brought along are starting to become restless. They bark and snarl, ready to attack]

Chechen: My dogs are hungry!

[He turns around. He sees someone, hiding in the shadows, dressed in black and wearing a mask]

Chechen: Pity there's only one of you!

[As if on cue, one of the henchmen screams as he's pulled off from behind Scarecrow's truck. Chechen looks to the side to reveal another masked figure, staring at him aggressively. Yet another throws a henchman over a railing, presumably to his death. Going back to the first masked man, we see him pull out a shotgun and fire it at the goons]

Chechen: What?!

[Scarecrow and the Chechen's men scatter, with Scarecrow hiding behind his truck]

Scarecrow: That's not him...

[The second impostor fires an uzi at the mafia, and everything soon breaks out into an all-out firefight between the Bat Shadows, their name in the script, and the drug dealers]

Chechen: Loose the dogs!

[The dogs are let loose upon the Bat Shadows, snagging one unfortunate member in the neck and pulling him to the ground. One Shadow manages to get the jump on Scarecrow, pressing a pistol to his back before Scarecrow turns around and hits him with a spray of fear gas. Suddenly, the Tumbler bursts through a divider and onto the scene, crushing two very unfortunate cars in the process]

Scarecrow: That's more like it.

[The thugs immediately shoot the Tumbler, not affecting it at all. A cut to the inside reveals there's no one in the cockpit, with the autopilot screen being set to "Loiter". Outside, the thugs start to get cocky. The screen then switches to "intimidate" and the Tumbler lets off two warning shots, one destroying the stairwell up to the current level and the other exploding a car next to the SUV that the henchmen are pulling away in. One Bat-Shadow has a gun trained on the Chechen, set to kill him, when the real Batman steps out of the shadows, bending the barrel of the gun with seemingly superhuman strength, which in reality is accomplished with a pneumatic mangle, before knocking the impostor out with a backhand. The Chechen gets away, leaving Batman to deal with some of his men, which Batman pulls off with ease. A quick cut to Scarecrow reveals that he's gotten in the SUV and is driving somewhere. Meanwhile, the Batman impostor who got knocked over earlier is still getting mangled by the dogs. Batman lassos his foot with a grappling hook and pulls the impostor away. One dog lets go, with the other just barely holding onto the impostor's leg. Batman reaches down to help the poor fellow but the dog bites his arm far quicker. Batman cries out in pain. Back on Scarecrow, we can see he's backing up. Batman finally manages to throw the dog off just in time to get hit by Scarecrow's van. Batman holds onto the side and tries to cut into the van with his wrist gadget, but is stopped when the blade gets stuck. Scarecrow drives towards a pillar at full speed and Batman bails, releasing the gadget from his wrist and slamming into it. Scarecrow drives off. Batman then picks himself up and walks over to the corkscrew ramp, in full view of the impostor. He waits at the top, pensive, before dropping to the ground just as the truck comes into view. Batman drops down onto the vehicle, crushing the hood and stopping it in its tracks. Much later, Scarecrow's mask is pulled away, revealing Jonathan Crane, smiling. He and the Batman copycats are tied to a pillar]

Batman: Don't let me find you out here again.

[He steps back to the Batmobile, while one of the imposters yells after him]

Fake Batman: We're trying to help you!

Batman: I don't need help!

Crane: Not my diagnosis.

Fake Batman: What gives you the right? What's the difference between you and me?

Batman: (lowered down into his car, hood sliding down) I'm not wearing hockey pads!

[Batman drives off as the impostor sadly looks down at his makeshift costume. We cut back to the bank from the beginning, Lieutenant Gordon walks up the steps, underscored by a barrage of shouted questions]

Officer: Everybody back now!

[He goes into the lobby, where he meets with Detective Ramirez. She hands him a manilla envelope]

Ramirez: He can't resist showing us his face.

[They walk into the vault where a forensic photographer is shooting Grumpy's body]

Gordon: What's he hiding under that makeup?

[He surveys the place. Something catches his eyes. Both cops look up. Batman has arrived. Ramirez walks back to the vault door, trying to give the two men some privacy]

Ramirez: Uh, can we get a minute, people, please?

[The lieutenant holds up a joker card, which was found at the scene]

Batman: Him again. Who are the others?

Gordon: Another bunch of small timers.

[The vigilante scans some dollar bills with a device]

Batman: Some of the marked bills I gave you.

Gordon: My detectives have been making drug buys with them for weeks. This bank was another drop for the Mob. That makes five. We found the bulk of their dirty cash.

Batman: Time to move in.

Gordon: We'd have to hit all banks simultaneously. SWAT teams, backup. What about this Joker guy?

Batman: One man or the entire Mob? He can wait.

[Editor's note: Ooh, you're so gonna regret that…]

Gordon: When the new DA hears about this, he'll want in.

Batman: Do you trust him?

Gordon: (looking down) Be hard to keep him out. I hear he's as stubborn as you are.

[He looks up. Batman has vanished without a trace. We cut to a fancy penthouse suite. Alfred, holding a tray with breakfast, finds Bruce's bed empty. He knows where he is, however, as is shown when he drives over to an industrial site, opens the gate and enters a shipping container. Inside, an elevator slowly lowers down into Bruce Wayne's improvised Batcave]

Alfred: (walking to his master) Be nice when Wayne Manor's rebuilt. You can swap not sleeping in a penthouse for not sleeping in a mansion.

[The butler sits down, right next to Bruce]

Alfred: Whenever you stitch yourself up, you do make a bloody mess.

Bruce Wayne: Yeah. It makes me learn from my mistakes.

Alfred: You ought to be pretty knowledgeable by now, then.

Bruce Wayne: My armor. I'm carrying too much weight. I need to be... I need to be faster.

Alfred: I'm sure Mr. Fox can oblige. (looking at the marks) Did you get mauled by a tiger?

Bruce Wayne: It was a dog. (when Alfred frowns) It was a big dog. There were more copycats last night, Alfred. With guns.

Alfred: Why not hire them, take the weekend off?

Bruce Wayne: (half a laugh) That wasn't exactly what I had in mind when I said I wanted to inspire people.

Alfred: I know. But things have improved. Look at the new district attorney.

Bruce Wayne: I am, closely.

Bruce Wayne: Need to know if he can be trusted.

Alfred: Are you interested in his character or his social circle?

[Rachel Dawes, who between movies has mysteriously changed from Katie Holmes to Maggie Gyllenhaal, walks up with Harvey]

Bruce Wayne: Who Rachel spends her time with is her business.

Alfred: I trust you don't have me followed on my day off.

Bruce Wayne: If you ever took one, I might.

Alfred: Know your limits, Master Wayne.

Bruce Wayne: Batman has no limits.

Alfred: Well, you do, sir.

Bruce Wayne: Well, can't afford to know them.

Alfred: And what's gonna happen on the day that you find out?

Bruce Wayne: We all know how much you like to say "I told you so."

Alfred: On that day, Master Wayne, even I won't want to. Probably.

[We cut to a courthouse. Rachel is sitting at a desk]

Harvey Dent: Sorry I'm late, folks.

Rachel Dawes: Where were you?

Harvey Dent: Worried you'd have to step up?

Rachel Dawes: Harvey, I know these briefs backwards.

Harvey Dent: Well then, fair's fair. (holds up a coin) Heads, I'll take it. Tails, he's all yours.

Rachel Dawes: Yeah? You wanna flip a coin to see who leads?

Harvey Dent: My father's lucky coin. As I recall, it got me my first date with you.

Rachel Dawes: I wouldn't leave something like that up to chance.

[Harvey flips the coin and lands it on his hand]

Harvey Dent: I don't.

[He pulls his hand away. It's heads]

Harvey Dent: I make my own luck.

Bailiff: All rise. The Honorable Judge Freel presiding.

Maroni: I thought the DA just played golf with the mayor.

Harvey Dent: Teeoff's 1:30. More than enough time to put you away for life, Sally.

[Some moments later. The court is in session. Harvey is talking to a man at the witness stand]

Harvey Dent: With Carmine Falcone in Arkham, someone must have stepped up to run the so-called family. Is that man in this courtroom today?

[The witness, Rossi, smiles and nods]

Harvey Dent: Could you identify him for us, please?

Rossi: You win, counselor.

[Dent turns towards Maroni, smiling smugly]

Rossi: It was me.

[The counselor turns back around, surprised. The audience seems uneasy]

Harvey Dent: I have a sworn statement from you that this man, Salvatore Maroni, is the new head of the Falcone crime family.

Rossi: Maroni? He's a fall guy! I'm the brains of the organization!

[The gallery laughs]

Freel: Order!

Harvey Dent: Permission to treat the witness as hostile?

Freel: Granted.

Rossi: (standing up) Hostile? (pulls out a gun) I'll show you hostile!

[Gasps everywhere. Rossi pulls the trigger, but the gun malfunctions. Dent decks Rossi and pulls the gun out of his hand, dismantling it as he walks back to Maroni. The witness is restrained by several officers]

Harvey Dent: Carbon fiber, .28 caliber, made in China. If you wanna kill a public servant, Mr. Maroni, I recommend you buy American.

[He puts the empty gun on Maroni's desk. The counselor turns back around]

Freel: Get him out of here.

Harvey Dent: But, Your Honor, I'm not done.

[Some members of the gallery applaud the DA. Cut to later that day, Rachel and Harvey are walking away from the courtroom]

Rachel Dawes: We'll never be able to link the gun to Maroni, so we can't charge him. But they're trying to kill you, means we're getting to them.

Harvey Dent: I'm glad you're so pleased, Rachel. I'm fine, by the way.

Rachel Dawes: Come on, Harvey. You're Gotham's DA. You're not getting shot at, you're not doing your job right. But, you know… If you said you were rattled, we could take the rest of the day off.

Harvey Dent: Can't. I dragged the head of the Major Crimes Unit down here.

Rachel Dawes: (stops) Oh, Jim Gordon? He's a friend, actually. Try to be nice.

[Gordon sits by the door to Dent's office. When the DA arrives, he walks up with him]

Gordon: I hear you got a hell of a right cross. It's a shame Sal's going to walk.

Harvey Dent: Yeah, well, good thing about the Mob is they keep giving you second chances.

[Dent holds a bundle of cash in his hands, slowly running his finger through the bills]

Harvey Dent: Lightly irradiated bills. Fancy stuff for a city cop. Have help?

Gordon: We liaise with various agencies...

Harvey Dent: Save it, Gordon. I wanna meet him.

Gordon: Official policy is to arrest the vigilante known as Batman on sight.

Harvey Dent: What about that floodlight on the top of MCU?

Gordon: If you got problems with malfunctioning equipment, I suggest you take them up with Maintenance, counselor.

Harvey Dent: I've put every money launderer in Gotham behind bars, but the Mob is still getting its money out. I think you and your friend have found the last game in town. You're trying to hit them where it hurts, their wallets. It's bold. You gonna count me in?

Gordon: In this town, the fewer people know something, the safer the operation.

Harvey Dent: I don't like that you got your own special unit and it's full of cops I investigated at Internal Affairs.

Gordon: If I didn't work with cops you'd investigated while at IA, I'd be working alone. I don't get political points for being an idealist. I do the best I can with what I have.

Harvey Dent: You want me to back warrants for search and seizure on five banks without telling me what we're after.

Gordon: Well, I can give you the names of the banks.

Harvey Dent: Well, that's a start. I'll get you your warrants, but I want your trust.

Gordon: Oh, you don't have to sell me, Dent. We all know you're Gotham's white knight.

Harvey Dent: Yeah, well, I heard they have a different name for me down at MCU.

Gordon: I wouldn't know about that.

[Oh, but we know. We know... Cut to Wayne Enterprises. A business meeting is transpiring. A businessman, Mr. Lau, is speaking to the board]

Lau: In China, Lau Security Investments stands for dynamic new growth. A joint Chinese venture with Wayne Enterprises will be a powerhouse.

Fox: Well, Mr. Lau, I speak for the rest of the board...

[They look over at Bruce Wayne, sitting in his chair, fast asleep. One of the board members, Coleman Reese, seems to be embarrased by this, but Fox continues]

Fox: ...and Mr. Wayne, in expressing our own excitement.

[When the meeting ends, Fox and Reese walk to a nearby elevator, conversing]

Reese: Sir, I know Mr. Wayne is curious about how his trust fund gets replenished, but... frankly, this is embarrassing.

Fox: You worry about the diligence, Mr. Reese. I'll worry about Bruce Wayne.

Reese: It's done. The numbers are solid.

Fox: Do them again. Wouldn't want the trust fund to run out, now, would we?

[The chairman of the board walks back to the meeting room, where Bruce is waiting]

Fox: Another long night? This joint venture was your idea, and the consultants love it. But I'm not convinced. Lau's company has grown by eight percent annually like clockwork. His revenue stream must be off the books. Maybe even illegal.

Bruce Wayne: Okay. Cancel the deal.

Fox: You already knew.

Bruce Wayne: Just needed a closer look at their books.

Fox: Anything else you can trouble me for?

Bruce Wayne: I need a new suit.

Fox: Yeah. Three buttons is a little 90's, Mr. Wayne.

Bruce Wayne: I'm not talking fashion, Mr. Fox, so much as function.

[He hands his associate several blueprints. Fox studies them]

Fox: You wanna be able to turn your head.

Bruce Wayne: Sure make backing out of the driveway easier.

Fox: I'll see what I can do.

[Cut to a fancy restaurant. Harvey and Rachel are sitting at a table]

Harvey Dent: Took three weeks to get a reservation here. I had to tell them I work for the government.

Rachel Dawes: Really?

Harvey Dent: Health inspector's not afraid to pull strings.

Bruce Wayne: Rachel. Fancy that.

Rachel Dawes: Yeah, Bruce. Fancy that.

Bruce Wayne: (introducing) Rachel, Natascha. Natascha, Rachel.

Rachel Dawes: Natascha. Are you the prima...

Bruce Wayne: (finishing) Prima ballerina for the Moscow Ballet.

Rachel Dawes: Wow. Harvey's taking me next week.

Bruce Wayne: Really? (looking over to Harvey) So you're into ballet?

Rachel Dawes: Bruce, this is Harvey Dent.

Harvey Dent: (shaking Bruce's hand) The famous Bruce Wayne. Rachel's told me everything about you.

Bruce Wayne: I certainly hope not. Let's put a couple tables together.

Harvey Dent: (looking around) I'm not sure that they'll let us.

Bruce Wayne: Oh, they should. I own the place.

[He points at one of the waiters. The four of them, sitting at a combined table, are having a conversation]

Natascha: (with a Russian accent) How could you want to raise children in a city like this?

Bruce Wayne: Well, I was raised here. I turned out okay.

Harvey Dent: Is Wayne Manor in the city limits?

Bruce Wayne: Is...? Heh-heh. The Palisades? Sure.

You know, as our new DA, you might wanna figure out where your jurisdiction ends.

Natascha: I'm talking about the kind of city that idolizes a masked vigilante.

Harvey Dent: Gotham City is proud of an ordinary citizen standing up for what's right.

Natascha: Gotham needs heroes like you, elected officials, not a man who thinks he's above the law.

Who appointed the Batman?

Harvey Dent: We did. All of us who stood by and let scum take control of our city.

Rachel Dawes: But this is a democracy, Harvey.

Harvey Dent: When their enemies were at the gates, the Romans would suspend democracy and appoint one man to protect the city. It wasn't considered an honor, it was a public service.

Rachel Dawes: Harvey, the last man that they appointed to protect the republic was named Caesar and he never gave up his power.

Harvey Dent: Okay, fine. You either die a hero or you live long enough to see yourself become the villain. Whoever the Batman is, he doesn't wanna do this for the rest of his life. How could he? Batman is looking for someone to take up his mantle.

Natascha: Someone like you, Mr. Dent?

Harvey Dent: (smiling) Maybe. If I'm up to it.

Natascha: What if Harvey Dent is the Caped Crusader? Hm?

[She holds her menu over to the top over Harvey's face, as if to determine whether his jaw looks familiar]

Harvey Dent: If I were sneaking out every night, someone would've noticed by now.

[He looks over to his girlfriend, holding her hand. Bruce steps in]

Bruce Wayne: Well... I'm sold, Dent, and I'm gonna throw you a fundraiser.

Harvey Dent: That's nice, but I'm not up for re-election for three years.

Bruce Wayne: No, you don't understand. One fundraiser with my pals, you'll never need another cent.

[We cut to what seems to be a kitchen, somewhere in Gotham. The Chechen is being searched for weapons as he walks through a detector gate. He joins his fellow criminals at a table, while two of them put an old TV on the end of it. One of Maroni's men speaks up]

Crime Boss: (pointing at the screen) What the hell is this?

[The monitor is turned on, revealing Lau]

Lau: As you're all aware, one of our deposits was stolen. A relatively small amount. Sixty eight million.

Chechen: Who's stupid enough to steal from us?

Maroni: Two-bit wackjob, wears a cheap purple suit and makeup. He's not the problem. He's a nobody. The problem is... our money being tracked by the cops.

Lau: Thanks to Mr. Maroni's well-placed sources, we know that police have indeed identified our banks using marked bills...

[As the conversation goes on, we're shown how the Major Crimes Unit are getting ready to raid the bank, aided by a SWAT team, led by Gordon, Ramirez and a third cop, Stephens]

Lau: ...and are planning to seize your funds today. And since the enthusiastic new DA has put all my competitors out of business...

[Briefly cutting back to the monitor. We go back and forth for a while]

Lau: ...I'm your only option.

[As the scene continues, another criminal, Gambol, speaks up]

Gambol: So, what are you proposin'?

Lau: Moving all deposits to one secure location, not a bank.

Gambol: Where, then?

Lau: No one can know but me.

[The raid continues, Gordon and his team are closing in on the bank vault]

Lau: If the police were to gain leverage over one of you, everyone's money would be at stake.

Chechen: What stopping them getting to you?

Lau: I go to Hong Kong, far from Dent's jurisdiction and the Chinese will not extradite one of their own.

Maroni: How soon can you move the money?

Lau: I already have.

[We see a truck, filled to the brim with money bags. The doors are closed, someone knocks onto it. The vehicle starts to drive away. Cut to Lau, sitting at a table in his private plane]

Lau: For obvious reasons, I couldn't wait for your permission.

[Gordon looks around the safe, which is almost completely empty]

Lau: Rest assured, your money is safe.

[All that's left are ten bundles of marked bills. The frustrated luitenant kicks them aside. As we go back to the kitchen, we hear someone laughing. Slowly, maniacally. The Joker walks through a corridor to the table]

Joker: And I thought my jokes were bad.

Gambol: (pointing at one of his goons) Give me one reason why I shouldn't have my boy here pull your head off.

Joker: How about a magic trick?

[He sticks a pencil in the table. Gambol's "boy" gets up]

Joker: I'm gonna make this pencil disappear.

[Just as the goon is about to attack, Joker grabs him and slams the man's head against the table. The pencil goes right through the guy's eye socket, killing him instantly when he falls out of frame]

Joker: (yelling) Ta-da! (pulling up a chair) It's... (spreading his fingers) Ah, it's gone.

[The Chechen seems impressed]

Joker: Oh, and by the way, the suit, it wasn't cheap. You ought to know, you bought it.

[Gambol gets up out of his seat, he's getting angry. The Chechen intervenes]

Chechen: Sit. (waves towards the clown) I want to hear proposition.

[Joker points back at him. Gambol sits down]

Joker: Let's wind the clocks back a year. These cops and lawyers wouldn't dare cross any of you. I mean, w-what happened? D-Did your balls drop off? Hm? You see, a guy like me...

Gambol: Freak.

Goon: Damn right.

Joker: (low volume) A guy like me... Look, listen. (louder, licks his lips) I know why you choose to have your little... (clears throat) group-therapy sessions in broad daylight. I know why you're afraid to go out at night. The Batman. See, Batman has shown Gotham your true colors, unfortunately. Dent? He's just the beginning.

[The clown then waves towards the frowning Lau]

Joker: Oh, and as for the television's… so-called plan, Batman has no jurisdiction. He'll find him and make him squeal.

[He squeezes his gloved wrists]

Joker: I know the squealers when I see them. And...

[While Joker points at the monitor, Lau blocks the camera with his hand. The screen turns black while the conversation continues]

Chechen: What do you propose?

Joker: It's simple. We, uh, kill the Batman.

[Laughter abound]

Maroni: (sarcastic) If it's so simple, why haven't you done it already?

Joker: If you're good at something, never do it for free.

Chechen: (nodding his head) How much you want?

Joker: Uh... Half.

[More laughter]

Gambol: (dumbfounded) You're crazy.

Joker: I'm not. No, I'm not. (clicks the T) If we don't deal with this now... soon little... uh, Gambol... here won't be able to get a nickel for his grandma.

Gambol: (slams against the table in frustration) Enough from the clown!

[He stands up, the Joker does too]

Joker: (opening his jacket, stepping back) Ah, ta-ta-ta-ta. Let's not blow...

[The clown has several grenades dangling in his jacket, tied together by a thread. Joker holds the ring connecting them. There is some distress at the table]

Goon: Shit!

Joker: ...this out of proportion.

Gambol: (angry) You think you can steal from us and just walk away?

Joker: Yeah.

[Editor's note: That's some honesty right there]

Gambol: I'm putting the word out. Five hundred grand for this clown dead. A million alive, so I can teach him some manners first.

Joker: All right. (waving his finger around) So, listen, why don't you give me a call when you wanna start taking things a little more seriously? Here's my card.

[He has pulled out a Joker card and puts it on the table. He hums and waves goodbye, still holding the ring, while Gambol stares at him furiously. Joker then kicks open the door behind him and leaves. Cut to Gotham at night. Dent is standing next to the Bat Signal. He sees that Batman has arrived]

Harvey Dent: You're a hard man to reach.

[Gordon joins him and Batman]

Harvey Dent: Lau's halfway to Hong Kong. If you'd have asked, I could have taken his passport.

Gordon: All that was left in the vaults were marked bills. They knew we were coming. As soon as your office got involved...

Harvey Dent: My office? You're sitting down there with scum like Wuertz and Ramirez and you're talking... Oh, yeah. I almost had your rookie cold on a racketeering beat.

Gordon: Don't try and cloud the fact that clearly Maroni's got people in your office, Dent.

[They both turn their attention back to Batman]

Harvey Dent: We need Lau back, but the Chinese won't extradite a national under any circumstances.

Batman: If I get him to you, can you get him to talk?

Harvey Dent: I'll get him to sing.

Gordon: We're going after the Mob's life savings. Things will get ugly.

[The DA redirects his attention to Gordon]

Harvey Dent: I knew the risk when I took this job, lieutenant. (turning back) How will you get him back, any...

[He stops when he sees Batman has disappeared. Dent looks back over to Gordon]

Gordon: He does that.

[Cut to Wayne Enterprises. Bruce and Mr Fox are having a chat on their way to Applied Sciences]

Fox: Our Chinese friends left town before I could tell them the deal was off.

Bruce Wayne: Well, I'm sure that you've always wanted to go to Hong Kong.

Fox: What's wrong with a phone call?

Bruce Wayne: I think Mr. Lau deserves a more personal touch.

Fox: Now, for high-altitude jumps, you're going to need oxygen and stabilizers. Well, I must say, compared to your usual requests, jumping out of an airplane is pretty straightforward.

Bruce Wayne: What about getting back into the plane?

Fox: I'd recommend a good travel agent.

Bruce Wayne: Without it landing.

Fox: (smiling) Now, that's more like it, Mr. Wayne. The CIA had a program back in the sixties for getting their people out of hot spots called Sky Hook. We could look into that.

Bruce Wayne: Yeah.

Fox: Okay. Now...

[He opens up a drawer, revealing several new pieces of armor for the Batsuit]

Fox: Hardened Kevlar plates over titanium-dipped tri-weave fibers for flexibility. You'll be lighter, faster, more agile.

[Several spikes shoot out of the armpiece Bruce is holding, which fly into a nearby file cabinet]

Fox: (playfully uneasy) Perhaps you should read the instructions first?

Bruce Wayne: Yeah.

Fox: Now, there is a tradeoff. Separation of the plates makes you more vulnerable to knives and gunfire.

Bruce Wayne: We wouldn't wanna make things too easy, now, would we? How will it hold up against dogs?

Fox: We talking Rottweilers or Chihuahuas? (nods) Should do fine against cats.

[We cut back to the Batcave. Alfred rolls out a map on a table]

Alfred: I found one in Arizona. A very nice man. Said he could have it up and running in a week, and he takes cash. What about the flight crew?

Bruce Wayne: South Korean smugglers. They run flights into Pyongyang, below radar. Did you think of an alibi?

Alfred: (smiling) Oh, yes.

[That day, Harvey and Rachel go to the theater, only to find that the show of the Russian Ballet has been cancelled. Rachel shakes her head in disbelief while she reads the attached newspaper clipping. "Love Boat: Millionaire Absconds On Cruise With Entire Russian Ballet". We then cut to that same cruise ship, a plane lands next to it in the ocean]

Alfred: (pointing over his shoulder) I believe this is your plane, sir.

[Bruce, holding a drink, looks over his own shoulder and gets up]

Bruce Wayne: You look tired, Alfred. You'll be all right without me?

[Alfred looks at the Russian girls, all of them wearing bikinis]

Alfred: If you can tell me the Russian for: "apply your own bloody suntan lotion."

[Bruce throws a bag with tools into the ocean, before jumping after it, ready to swim towards the plane. Back in Gotham, we're shown Gambol playing pool. He's approached by his henchmen]

Boy #1: Yo, Gambol, somebody here for you. They say they've just killed the Joker.

Boy #2: They brought the body.

[A couple of what seem to be smalltime criminals enter, looking around Gambol's headquarters. They dump a filled garbage bag on the pool table. Gambol pulls a piece of plastic away, revealing the head of the Joker. Gambol smiles smugly]

Gambol: So, dead? That's five hundred.

[Things go crazy fast. Joker gets up and holds a knife against the corner of Gambol's mouth]

Joker: How about alive? Hm?

[The gangster's henchmen are pinned down by the guys who brought the Joker here]

Joker: (leaning forward, whispering) You wanna know how I got these scars? (normal volume) My father was... a drinker... and a fiend. And one night, he goes off crazier than usual. Mommy gets the kitchen knife to defend herself. He doesn't like that. Not... one... bit. So, me watching, he takes the knife to her, laughing while he does it. He turns to me and he says: "Why so serious?" He comes at me with the knife. (lifting the blade) "Why so serious?" He sticks the blade in my mouth. "Let's put a smile on that face." (almost in a sing-a-long tone) And...

[The clown looks over to one of Gambol's goons]

Joker: Why so serious?

[The guy whimpers and closes his eyes when his dead boss falls on the floor. Joker pulls the plastic away. As he continues his monologue, he circles around the table and grabs Gambol's pool cue]

Joker: Now, our operation is small, but there is a lot of potential for... aggressive expansion. So which of you fine gentlemen would like to join our team? (holds up his hand) Oh. There's only one spot open right now, so we're gonna have...

[He snaps the cue in half]

Joker: ...tryouts.

[The pointy stick is dropped on the floor. The Joker walks back to the doorway]

Joker: Make it fast.

[Gambol's guys are let loose, left to fight over the cue. Back to Hong Kong. A helicopter lands on a platform. Fox gets out and is greeted by an LSI employee]

LSI Employee: (raised voice) Welcome to Hong Kong, Mr. Fox. Mr. Lau regrets he is unable to greet you in person today.

Fox: I understand.

[They enter the head office of LSI, stepping towards the front desk]

LSI Employee: For security purposes, I'm gonna have to ask you to check in your mobile.

Fox: Of course.

Lau: I must apologize for leaving Gotham in the middle of our negotiations. This misunderstanding with the Gotham police force... I couldn't let it threaten my company.

Fox: Of course.

Lau: A businessman of your stature will understand and, with you here now, we can continue.

Fox: Well, I do appreciate you bringing me out here in such style, Mr. Lau, but I re...

[We hear a phone ringing. It's Fox's. He fishes it out of his coat]

Lau: We do not allow cell phones in here.

Fox: I'm sorry. Forgot I had it.

[He put the second phone away]

Fox: No, I really came to tell you that our business deal has to be put on hold. You see, we can't afford to be seen to do business with... whatever it is you're accused of being. (as Lau stands up) I'm sure a businessman of your stature will understand.

Lau: I think, Mr. Fox, a simple phone call might have sufficed.

Fox: Mr. Wayne didn't want you to think he was deliberately wasting your time.

Lau: Just accidentally wasting it.

Fox: That's very good, Mr. Lau. "Accidentally." Very good.

[As he leaves, the man is approached by the deskworker]

Deskworker: (holding out Fox's phone) Hey, sir.

[The sly Fox shows the man his second phone. The deskworker puts the device in a drawer, intending to keep it. Outside, the head of Wayne Enterprises joins his boss, who is taking photos of the perimeter]

Fox: There's a better view from the peak tram.

Bruce Wayne: How's the view from LSI Holdings?

Fox: Restricted. Lau is holed up in there good and tight.

[Lucius then hands Bruce his cell]

Bruce Wayne: What's this?

Fox: I had R&D work it up.

[The display shows thermal images of the inside of LSI Holdings]

Fox: Sends out a high-frequency pulse, records the response time for mapping an environment.

Bruce Wayne: Sonar. Just like a...

Fox: Submarine, Mr. Wayne. Like a submarine.

Bruce Wayne: And the other device?

Fox: It's in place.

Fox: Mr. Wayne? Good luck.

[Cut to the tallest building on the skyline, where a quick pan around reveals Bruce standing on the ledge, maskless and capeless. He kneels down, taking a look at the ground below and giving us a look at the strange box-like attachments on the new suit. He puts the mask on before assembling a rifle-like device from his utility belt. Once it's complete, he sets the timer on the side for 2:30 and fires four small sticky bombs at the windows. They've started to count down. Cut to the inside of Lau's building. Lau is on the phone, making a business deal or some such activity]

Lau: (In Chinese) Okay. Okay.

[Inside the box, Fox's phone goes off, illegible symbols covering the screen. It triggers some kind of pulse, cutting the power throughout the building. It seems as though everyone, except Lau, is phased by this]

Lau: (In Chinese, to a bodyguard) Go look.

[The bodyguards take their guns and move through the building. Meanwhile, the security guards try to contact the authorities for help. Cut back to Batman, who swan dives off the building in a seemingly suicidal gesture. But... aha! Not four seconds later, the mysterious pack on his back unfurls to reveal a pair of wings which take him gliding through the Hong Kong skyline. Lau pulls out a pistol and takes a breath, pressing his suit down. A random cut to a bodyguard reveals he hasn't found anything. Everyone's on edge. Back to Lau]

Lau: (In Chinese) Where the hell are the cops?

Bodyguard: (In Chinese) Coming.

Lau: (In Chinese) What the hell am I paying them for?

[Back on Batman, gliding through the air. He hangs for a brief moment, then dives, breaking through a window. From there, he shoves one bodyguard through a pane of glass and disarms him before punching another in the face, knocking him out instantly. At this, Lau and two guards shoot at Batman, who ducks behind another pane of glass and disappears from view. Back down at the lobby, the Hong Kong police arrive en masse, rushing up the shut-down escalator. Upstairs, Lau and his two remaining bodyguards keep their eyes peeled for Batman. One of them spots the Dark Knight, but it's too late. Batman grabs one bodyguard by the arm and forces him to shoot downward before slamming the guy's body into another bodyguard, then dragging him into Lau. A separate bodyguard approaches and Batman hits him with his own gun, then slams the end of it into Lau's face before throwing it down in disgust. He grabs Lau by the foot and drags the businessman back into his office, casually backhanding another guard on the way here]

Lau: (In Chinese) Let go! Let go! I'll give you anything if you let go!

[Batman pulls him up, holding him in a vice grip just as the police arrive. They all aim their guns at the pair]

Lau: (In Chinese) Don't shoot!

[Batman attaches something around Lau's waist]

Lau: (In Chinese) Don't shoot! Don't shoot!

[Outside, the sticky bombs explode, taking a good chunk of Lau's office with it. Batman activates the device, which produces a weather balloon which quickly flies up into the sky. Batman and the Hong Kong Detective enter a stare down before a massive rumbling interrupts it. Suddenly, a massive C-130 roars over. The large V on the front of the plane snags the line, and Lau and Batman are yanked through the hole in the ceiling. The detective looks up, but it's too late. They're gone. The next day, outside GCPD, a disheveled and jet-lagged Lau sits on the entrance with a note reading "Please Deliver To - LIEUTENANT GORDON" attached to him. The cops take him in. We cut to an interrogation room. Rachel talks to the disgraced businessman and his attorney]

Rachel Dawes: Look, give us the money and we'll talk about making a deal.

Lau: Money is the only reason I'm still alive.

[Editor's note: Oh, you just wait…]

Rachel Dawes: Oh, you mean, when they find out that you've helped us, they're gonna kill you?

Lawyer: Are you threatening my client?

Rachel Dawes: No. I'm just assuming your client's cooperation with this investigation. As will everyone.

[But after a beat of silence…]

Rachel Dawes: No? Okay. (standing up) Enjoy your time in County, Mr. Lau.

Lau: Wait! I won't give you the money, but I will give you my clients. All of them.

Rachel Dawes: You were a glorified accountant. What could you possibly have on all of them that we could charge?

Lau: I'm good with calculation. I handled all their investments. One big pot.

[Luitenant Gordon and Harvey Dent are observing the interrogation outside]

Harvey Dent: Got it.

Rachel Dawes: (leaving the room) One minute.

Harvey Dent: RICO. If they pooled their money, we can charge them as one criminal conspiracy.

Gordon: Charge them with what?

Harvey Dent: In a RICO case, if you can charge one of them with a felony...

Rachel Dawes: (finishing) You can charge all of them with it. That's great.

[She walks back to the interrogation room]

Rachel Dawes: Mr. Lau. What kind of details do you have about this communal fund? Ledgers...

Lau: (interrupting, giving his demands) Immunity, protection and a chartered plane back to Hong Kong.

Rachel Dawes: After you testify in open court. I'm just curious. With all your clients locked up, what's gonna happen with all that money?

Lau: Like I said, I'm good with calculation.

[Cut to the outside of the room. Gordon and Dent observe the interrogation]

Gordon: He can't go to County. I'll keep him here in the holding cells.

Harvey Dent: What is this, Gordon, your fortress?

Gordon: Well, you trust them over at County?

Harvey Dent: I don't trust them here.

Gordon: Lau stays.

[Some time later, Dent gives a statement to the press, which is displayed on a TV at a restaurant]

Harvey Dent: Well, I don't know about Mr. Lau's travel arrangements, but I'm sure glad he's back.

[Maroni, the Chechen and some of their buddies are eating at that restaurant]

Chechen: (while eating) Put word out. We hire the clown.

[Maroni turns his head]

Chechen: He was right. We have to fix real problem. Batman.

Harvey Dent: I'm not aware of any participation...

[The criminals are joined by Gordon]

Gordon: (looking over to the TV) Our boy looks good on the tube.

Maroni: You sure you wanna embarrass me in front of my friends?

Gordon: Oh, don't worry. They're coming too.

[Several officers drag the mobsters out of their chairs]

Gordon: Have a nice trip. See you next fall.

Surillo: Seven hundred twelve counts of extortion. Eight hundred and forty-nine counts of racketeering. Two hundred and forty-six counts of fraud. Eighty-seven counts of conspiracy murder. Five hundred and twenty-seven counts of obstruction of justice.

[She finds a joker card between her papers. She tosses it aside, before directing her attention back to the courtroom]

Surillo: How do the defendants plead?

[Chaos erupts, all of the criminals yell at the judge]

Surillo: Order in the court.

Five hundred and forty-nine criminals at once. How did you convince Surrillo to hear this farce?

Harvey Dent: She shares my enthusiasm for justice. After all, she is a judge.

Even if you blow enough smoke to get convictions out of Surrillo, you're gonna set a new record at appeals.

Harvey Dent: It won't matter. The head guys make bail, sure. But the midlevel guys, they can't. They can't afford to be off the streets. They'll cut deals that include some jail time. Think of all you could do with eighteen months of clean streets.

Loeb: Mr. Mayor, you can't...

Mayor: No, get out. Both of you.

[Both Gordon and the commisioner leave the room]

Mayor: (to Dent) Sit down.

[Dent does so]

Mayor: The public likes you. That's the only reason that this might fly. But that means it's on you. They're all gonna come after you now, and not just the Mob. Politicians, journalists, cops. Anyone whose wallet's about to get lighter. Are you up to it? You'd better be.

[He walks over to one of the windows surrounding the office, looking out over the city]

Mayor: Because they get anything on you and those criminals are back on the streets, followed swiftly by you and me.

[Cue Joker's theme! The corpse of a man in a Batman costume is swung against the window]

Mayor: (stumbling back) Jesus!

[Dent runs towards the body, which is suspended into the air by a rope around his neck. Gordon stands by as the corpse is lowered down. A Chelsea grin has been painted over the dead man's face and a Joker card is pinned to his chest, with the text: "Will The Real Batman Please Stand Up?" Back to Bruce's penthouse]

Alfred: I think your fundraiser will be a great success, sir.

Bruce Wayne: And why do you think I wanna hold a party for Harvey Dent?

Alfred: I assumed it was your usual reason for socializing beyond myself and the scum of Gotham's underbelly: to try to impress Miss Dawes.

Bruce Wayne: Very droll, but very wrong. Actually, it's Dent.

[The two of them look over to the telly, where we see the fake Batman being brought to the ground]

Mike Engel: Police released video footage found concealed on the body. Sensitive viewers, be aware. The image is disturbing.

[We're shown found footage from inside a slaughterhouse. The fake Batman from earlier in the movie has been tied to a chair and is being interrogated by the Joker]

Joker: Tell them your name.

Fake Batman: Brian... Douglas.

Joker: Are you the real Batman?

Brian Douglas: No...

Joker: No?

Brian Douglas: No.

Joker: No?!

[Brian's mask is ripped off]

Joker: Then why do you dress up like him?!

[He dangles it in front of the camera, laughing]

Joker: Hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo!

Brian Douglas: Because he's a symbol... that we don't have to be afraid of scum like you.

Joker: Yeah. You do, Brian. (grabbing Brian's head) You really do. Huh? Yeah! (stroking his head) Oh, shush, shush, shush, shush…. So you think Batman's made Gotham a better place? Hm? Look at me. (shouting) Look at me!

[Brian looks into the camera, before it is turned around, showing the Joker's disgusting visage]

Joker: You see, this is how crazy Batman's made Gotham. You want order in Gotham? Batman must take off his mask and turn himself in. Oh, and every day he doesn't, people will die. (beat) Starting tonight. I'm a man of my word.

[He errupts into deranged laughter, before dropping the camera and throwing himself at Brian, who screams in terror. Later that night, we cut to the fundraiser Bruce is hosting. Rachel and Harvey arrive]

Rachel Dawes: Harvey Dent, scourge of the underworld, scared stiff by the trust-fund brigade. I'll be back.

Harvey Dent: Rachel.

Alfred: (holding a tray with drinks) A little liquid courage, Mr. Dent?

Harvey Dent: Thank you. Alfred, right?

Alfred: That's right, sir.

Harvey Dent: Rachel talks about you all the time. You've known her her whole life.

Alfred: Not yet, sir.

Harvey Dent: Any psychotic ex-boyfriends I should be aware of?

Alfred: (smiling) Oh, you have no idea.

Bruce Wayne: I'm sorry that I'm late. I'm glad to see that you all got started without me.

Bruce Wayne: Now, where is Harvey? Where... Harvey Dent, the man of the hour. Where's Rachel Dawes? She is my oldest friend. Come here.

Bruce Wayne: When Rachel first told me she was dating Harvey Dent, I had one thing to say: "The guy from those god-awful campaign commercials?"

Bruce Wayne: "I believe in Harvey Dent." Yeah, nice slogan, Harvey. But it caught Rachel's attention. And then I started to pay attention to Harvey and all that he's been doing as our new DA. And you know what? I believe in Harvey Dent. I believe that on his watch, Gotham can feel... a little safer, a little more optimistic. Look at this face. This is the face of Gotham's bright future. To Harvey Dent. Let's hear it for him. Harvey.

Rachel Dawes: Harvey may not know you well enough to understand you're making fun of him, but I do.

Bruce Wayne: No, I meant every word. You know that day that you once told me about when Gotham would no longer need Batman? It's coming.

Rachel Dawes: Bruce. You can't ask me to wait for that.

Bruce Wayne: It's happening now. Harvey is that hero. He locked up half of the city's criminals, and he did it without wearing a mask.Gotham needs a hero with a face.

Harvey Dent: You can throw a party, Wayne, I'll give you that. Thanks again. You mind if I borrow Rachel?

Ramirez: Lieutenant, that joker card pinned to the body? Forensics found three sets of DNA.

Gordon: Any matches?

Ramirez: All three. The DNA belongs to Judge Surrillo, Harvey Dent and Commissioner Loeb.

Gordon: The Joker's telling us who he's targeting. Get a unit over to Surrillo's house. Tell Wuertz to find Dent. Protective custody. Where's the commissioner?

Ramirez: City hall.

Gordon: Seal the building. No one in or out till I get there.

Ramirez: Got it.

Loeb: Gordon. What are you up to?

Gordon: We're secure. I want a floor-by-floor search of the entire building. (to Loeb) We believe the Joker's made a threat against your life.

Cop: These are dangerous people.

Surillo: You're not giving me a lot of information.

Cop: Even we don't know where you're going. Take the envelope, get in, open it. It'll tell you where you're headed.

Harvey Dent: You can't leave me alone with these people.

Rachel Dawes: The whole Mob's after you and you're worried about these guys?

Harvey Dent: Compared to this, the Mob doesn't scare me.

Loeb: Gordon, you're unlikely to discover this for yourself, so take my word, the police commissioner earns a lot of threats. I found the appropriate response to these situations a long time ago.

[He puts a bottle of scotch and a glass on his desk]

Harvey Dent: Them gunning for you makes you see things clearly.

Rachel Dawes: Yeah, I bet.

Harvey Dent: Yeah. It makes you think about things you couldn't stand losing... About who you wanna spend your life with.

Rachel Dawes: That's a pretty big commitment.

Harvey Dent: Not if the Mob has their way.

[Loeb sits back at his desk, he opens the bottle]

Loeb: You get to explain to my wife why I'm late for dinner.

Gordon: Sir, the joker card had traces of your DNA on it.

Rachel Dawes: Don't do that.

Harvey Dent: All right. Let's be serious, then.

Rachel Dawes: Okay.

Harvey Dent: What's your answer?

Rachel Dawes: I don't have an answer.

Loeb: How'd they get my DNA?

Gordon: Somebody with access to your office or house must have lifted a tissue or a glass...

[But then he realizes the Joker's master stroke, just as Loeb takes a zip of the liquor]

Gordon: Wait! Wait!

Harvey Dent: Well, I guess no answer is a no.

Rachel Dawes: Harvey.

Harvey Dent: It's someone else, isn't it?

Rachel Dawes: Harvey...

Harvey Dent: Just tell me it's not Wayne. The guy's a complete f...

[Bruce, always the perfect host, suddenly pulls Harvey away from her]

Rachel Dawes: What are you doing?

Gordon: Oh, shit.

Gordon: Get a medic!

[The liquid is smoking, it's clearly corrosive and poisonous]

Bruce Wayne: They've come for him.

Joker: We made it.

Bruce Wayne: Stay hidden.

[The Joker fires a shotgun round into the air. He has everyone's attention. His thugs, wearing clown masks, spread through the room]

Joker: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. We are... tonight's entertainment. (grabbing a saute, chewing on it) I only have one question: where is Harvey Dent?

[As he walks around the crowd, he grabs a glass champagne out of a guest's hand, hurling most of it out and drinking the last drops]

Joker: (slapping faces) You know where Harvey is? You know who he is?

[Bruce Wayne walks into one of Joker's goons, wearing a sock mask]

Socky: Hands up, pretty boy.

[The millionaire quickly knocks out Socky, grabs his gun and disassembles it as he continues his walk. Back to the penthouse]

Joker: Do you know where I can find Harvey? I need to talk to him. Just something little, huh? (shaking the guy's head) No.

Businessman: What's going on out there? Wayne!

Pretty Woman: Oh, thank God, you've got a panic room.

Businessman: Hey, wait...

Pretty Woman: Oh, you gotta be kidding me.

Joker: You know, I'll settle for his loved ones.

Board Member: We're not intimidated by thugs.

Joker: You know... (shakily slamming the glass down on a table) You remind me of my father.

[He grabs the old man in a headlock and pulls out his knife]

Joker: I hated my father.

Rachel Dawes: Okay, stop.

[The Joker turns his head and sees Rachel. He lets go of the old man, who is pushed back in the crowd by the clown thugs, and walks over to her]

Joker: (parting his green hair) Well, hello, beautiful. (pointing with the knife) You must be Harvey's squeeze. Hm? And you are beautiful.

[He starts to circle the nervous woman]

Joker: Oh, you look nervous. Is it the scars? You wanna know how I got 'em?

[He grabs Rachel by her face. She winces and struggles while the Joker continues his monologue]

Joker: Come here. Hey. Look at me. So I had a wife.

[Now the camera starts circling]

Joker: Beautiful, like you. Who tells me... I worry too much. Who tells me I ought to smile more... Who gambles and gets in deep… with the sharks. Hey.

[The circling stops]

Joker: One day, they carve her face. We have no money for surgeries. She can't take it. I just wanna see her smile again. Hm? I just want her to know that I don't care about the scars. So... I stick a razor in my mouth and do this... to myself. And you know what? She can't stand the sight of me! She leaves. Now I see the funny side. Now I'm always smiling.

[Rachel then punches the Joker in the gut. He laughs and stumbles back]

Joker: (waving his knife) Got a little fight in you. I like that.

Batman: Then you're gonna love me.

Batman: Drop the gun.

Joker: Oh, sure. You just take off your little mask and show us all who you really are. Hm?

Batman: Let her go.

Joker: Very poor choice of words.

[The clown cackles as he lets Rachel go, causing her to fall out of the window. Batman quickly hurls himself forward, out of the room and into the open. Rachel, waving her arms and screaming for dear life, slides away from the vigilante. As they fall, Batman catches her. He braces for impact as we cut down to the inside of a car, where someone is drinking a cup of coffee. The vigilante and Rachel land on the hood of it, shattering the vehicle's glass]

Batman: Are you all right?

Rachel Dawes: Oh... Let's not do that again. Is Harvey okay?

Batman: He's safe.

Rachel Dawes: Thank you.

[We cut to the MCU. Gordon is conversing with Stephens]

Stephens: Jim, it's over.

Gordon: As long as they don't get to Lau, we've cut off their funds.

Stephens: The prosecution's over. Nobody's standing up in front of a Judge while judges and police commissioners are getting blown away.

Gordon: What about Dent?

Stephens: He's got any sense, Dent's halfway to Mex...

[The cop is interrupted when Dent arrives]

Harvey Dent: So where do you keep your trash?

[The DA steps into Lau's cell]

Harvey Dent: You're due in court. I need you alive long enough to get you on the record.

Lau: You can't protect me. You can't even protect yourselves.

Harvey Dent: You refuse to cooperate, you're not coming back here, you go to County. How long do you calculate you'll last in there?

[He throws a bulletproof vest towards Lau. Back to the Batcave]

Bruce Wayne: Targeting me won't get their money. I knew the Mob wouldn't go down easily, but this is different. They crossed a line.

Alfred: You crossed the line first. You squeezed them, you hammered them to the point of desperation. And in their desperation, they turned to a man they didn't fully understand.

[The Joker's visage is shown on several monitors behind them. A computer algorithm is seemingly trying to find a facial match]

Bruce Wayne: Criminals aren't complicated, Alfred. We just need to figure out what he's after.

Alfred: With respect, Master Wayne, perhaps this is a man you don't fully understand either.

[He walks to his master and starts to tell a story]

Alfred: A long time ago, I was in Burma and my friends and I were working for the local government. They were trying to buy the loyalty of tribal leaders by bribing them with precious stones, but their caravans were being raided in a forest north of Rangoon by a bandit. So we went looking for the stones. But in six months, we never met anyone who traded with him. One day, I saw a child playing with a ruby, the size of a tangerine. The bandit had been throwing them away.

Bruce Wayne: So why steal them?

Alfred: Because he thought it was good sport? Because some men aren't looking for anything logical, like money. They can't be bought, bullied, reasoned or negotiated with. Some men just wanna watch the world burn.

Operator: Your name, sir?

Joker: Eighth and Orchard. You'll find Harvey Dent there.

Batman: Check the names.

Gordon: "Richard Dent." "Patrick Harvey."

Ramirez: Harvey Dent.

Batman: I need ten minutes with the scene before your men contaminate it.

Ramirez: It's because of you these guys are dead...

Gordon: Detective!

Ramirez: Give us a minute, guys.

Gordon: That's brick underneath. Gonna take ballistics off a shattered bullet?

Batman: No. Fingerprints.

Gordon: Whatever you're gonna do, do it fast. Because we found his next target. He's put it in tomorrow's paper.

Alfred: I'm not sure you made it loud enough, sir.

Fox: What can I do for you, Mr. Reese?

Reese: You wanted me to do the diligence on the LSI Holdings deal again? Well, I found some irregularities.

Fox: Their CEO is in police custody.

Reese: No, not with their numbers, with yours. Applied Sciences. Whole division of Wayne Enterprises just disappeared overnight. I went down to the archives and I started pulling some old files.

[He slides a blueprint of the Tumbler over to Fox]

Reese: Don't tell me you didn't recognize your baby pancaking cop cars on the evening news. Now you got the entire R&D Department burning through cash, claiming it's related to cell phones for the Army? What are you building for him now, a rocket ship? I want... ten million dollars a year for the rest of my life.

Fox: Let me get this straight. You think that your client, one of the wealthiest, most powerful men in the world, is secretly a vigilante, who spends his nights beating criminals to a pulp with his bare hands. And your plan is to blackmail this person?

[While Fox speaks, Reese's smile slowly vanishes. He knows nobody will believe him]

Fox: (smiling) Good luck.

Reese: When... Keep that.

Fox: This is your original scan. Here it is reengineered.

[On the screen, all of the bullet pieces come back together. There is a fingerprint on it]

Bruce Wayne: And there's the thumbprint he left when he pushed the round in the clip.

Fox: I'll get you a copy. Mr. Wayne, did you reassign R&D?

Bruce Wayne: Yeah. Government telecommunications project.

Fox: Wasn't aware we had any government contracts.

Bruce Wayne: You know, Lucius, I'm playing this one pretty close to the chest.

Fox: Fair enough.

Female Reporter: With no word from the Batman, even as they mourn Commissioner Loeb, these cops have to wonder if the Joker will make good on his threat in the obituary column of The Gotham Times to kill the mayor.

Bruce Wayne: I've checked all the databases. There are four possibles. Cross-reference the addresses. Look for Parkside, overlooking the parade.

Alfred: I got one. Melvin White, 1502 Randolph Apartments. Aggravated assault, moved to Arkham twice.

Gordon: What do you got on the roof?

Rooftop Cop: We're tight, but frankly, there's a lot of windows up here.

Mayor: Commissioner Loeb dedicated his life to law enforcement and to the protection of his community. I remember when I first took office and I asked if he wanted to stay on as commissioner. And he said he would, provided I kept my politics out of his office.

Mayor: Clearly he was not a man who minced words, nor should he have been. A number of policies that he enacted as commissioner were unpopular. Policies that flooded my office with angry calls and letters...

Honor Guard: Who's that?

Bruce Wayne: (in his Batman voice) What happened?

Honor Guard: (breathing heavily) They took our guns. And our uniforms.

Mayor: And as we recognize the sacrifice of this man, we must remember that vigilance is the price of safety.

Fake Guard: Stand by. Honor guard. Attention. Port arms. Ready! Aim! Fire!

Fake Guard: Ready! Aim!

Fake Guard: Ready! Aim!

Police Officer: Stay down! Don't move!

Stephens: Mr. Mayor. Get him out of here.

Harvey Dent: I'll see you later.

Rachel Dawes: Why are you going back?

[Harvey pushes through crowd and gets into an ambulance with jokers henchman dressed as a police officer]

Harvey Dent: (to police in ambulance)Get out of here.

Harvey Dent: (to henchman)Tell me what you know about the Joker.

Barbara: No...

Stephens: I'm sorry, Barbara.

Barbara: Jimmy, go play with your sister. Go ahead, honey.

Stephens: If there's anything we can do, anything you need, we're here for you. Shh.

Barbara: Are you out there? Are you? You brought this craziness on us! You did! You brought this on us!

[Batman looks away, he seems troubled. Later that night, the cops are surrounding the Bat Signal]

Stephens: Switch it off, he ain't coming. He doesn't wanna talk to us. (when it's turned off) God help whoever he does wanna talk to.

Broad: Can't we go someplace quieter? We can't hear each other talk.

Maroni: What makes you think I wanna hear you talk?

Broad: What?

Rachel Dawes: Harvey, where are you?

Harvey Dent: Where are you?

Rachel Dawes: I'm where you should be, at Major Crimes. I'm trying to deal with all of this mess. Can I get the fingerprint analysis?

Harvey Dent: Rachel, listen. You're not safe there.

Rachel Dawes: This is Gordon's unit.

Harvey Dent: Gordon's gone.

Rachel Dawes: He vouched for these men.

Harvey Dent: And he's gone. The Joker's named you next. God, is there someone, is there anyone in this town we can trust?

Rachel Dawes: Bruce. We can trust Bruce Wayne.

Harvey Dent: No. Rachel, I know you're his friend, but...

Rachel Dawes: Harvey, trust me. Bruce's penthouse is now the safest place in the city.

Harvey Dent: Then you go straight there. Don't tell anybody and I'll find you there. I love you.

Batman: I want the Joker.

Maroni: From one professional to another, you're trying to scare somebody, pick a better spot. From this height, the fall wouldn't kill me.

Batman: I'm counting on it.

[He lets Maroni go. The mobster cries out when he falls onto the concrete below. The sound of breaking bones seems to indicate the landing is rough. Batman jumps after him]

Batman: Where is he?

Maroni: I don't know where he is. He found us.

Batman: He must have friends.

Maroni: Friends? Have you met this guy?

Batman: Someone knows where he is.

Maroni: Nobody's gonna tell you nothing. They're wise to your act. You got rules. The Joker, he's got no rules. Nobody's gonna cross him for you. If you want this guy, you got one way. But you already know what that is. Just take off that mask, let him come find you. Or you can let a couple more people get killed while you make up your mind.

Harvey Dent: You wanna play games?

Harvey Dent: How's that feel?

Thomas Schiff: You wouldn't...

Harvey Dent: (outraged) I wouldn't!

Harvey Dent: You don't think I will? You don't think I will?!

Harvey Dent: No. No, I wouldn't. That's why I'm not gonna leave it up to me. Heads, you get to keep your head. Tails... not so lucky. So you wanna tell me about the Joker?

[He flips his coin. It's heads. Again]

Harvey Dent: Let's go again.

Thomas Schiff: I don't know anything! God, don't!

Harvey Dent: You're not playing the odds, friend. Let's do it again.

[Dent flips the coin and Batman catches it.]

Batman: You'd leave a man's life to chance?

Harvey Dent: Not exactly.

Batman: His name's Schiff, Thomas. He's a paranoid schizophrenic, former patient at Arkham. The kind of mind the Joker attracts. What do you expect to learn from him?

Harvey Dent: The Joker killed Gordon. He's gonna kill Rachel.

Batman: You're the symbol of hope I could never be. Your stand against organized crime is the first legitimate ray of light in Gotham in decades. If anyone saw this, everything would be undone. The criminals you arrested would be released and Jim Gordon will have died for nothing. You're gonna hold a press conference tomorrow.

Harvey Dent: Why?

Batman: No one else will die because of me. Gotham's in your hands now.

Harvey Dent: You can't. You can't give in. (yelling) You can't give in!

Rachel Dawes: Harvey called. He said Batman's gonna turn himself in.

Bruce Wayne: I have no choice.

Rachel Dawes: You honestly think that's gonna keep the Joker from killing people?

Bruce Wayne: Maybe not. But I have enough blood on my hands. And I've seen now what I would have to become to stop men like him.

Bruce Wayne: You once told me that if the day came when I was finished... that we'd be together.

Rachel Dawes: Bruce, don't make me your one hope for a normal life.

Bruce Wayne: Did you mean it?

Rachel Dawes: Yes.

Rachel Dawes: Bruce. If you turn yourself in, they're not gonna let us be together.

[We cut to the Batcave. Bruce, holding one of his Batarangs, puts it away in his armory. Alfred is shown burning documents]

Alfred: Logs as well?

Bruce Wayne: Everything. Anything that could lead back to Lucius or Rachel. People are dying, Alfred. What would you have me do?

Alfred: (walking towards Bruce) Endure, Master Wayne. Take it. They'll hate you for it, but that's the point of Batman. He can be the outcast. He can make the choice that no one else can make. The right choice.

Bruce Wayne: No, today I found out what Batman can't do. He can't endure this. Today you get to say "I told you so."

Alfred: Today, I don't want to.

[They walk back to the lift]

Alfred: But I did bloody tell you.

[All the lights slowly turn off while the lift rises upwards]

Alfred: I suppose they're gonna lock me up as well, as your accomplice.

Bruce Wayne: Accomplice? I'm gonna tell them the whole thing was your idea.

Harvey Dent: Ladies and gentlemen thank you for coming, I've called this press conference for two reasons. Firstly, to assure the citizens of Gotham that everything that can be done over the Joker killings is being done. Secondly, because the Batman has offered to turn himself in. But let's consider the situation. Should we give in to this terrorist's demands? Do we really think he's gonna...?

Reporter: You'd rather protect an outlaw vigilante than the lives of citizens?

Harvey Dent: The Batman is an outlaw. That's not why we demand he turn himself in, we're doing it because we're scared. We've been happy to let Batman clean up our streets till now.

Civilian 1: Things are worse than ever!

Civilian 2: Amen.

Harvey Dent: Yes, they are. But the night is darkest just before the dawn. And I promise you, the dawn is coming. One day, the Batman will have to answer for the laws he's broken. But to us. Not to this madman.

Police officer: No more dead cops!

Crowd: Yeah!

Civilian 1: He should turn himself in!

Crowd: Give us the Batman! Come on!

Crowd: Where is he?

Harvey Dent: So be it. Take the Batman into custody.

Crowd: What? Is he here?

Harvey Dent: I am the Batman.

Crowd: What? Come on.

[In the Wayne Enterprises building]

Rachel Dawes: Alfred. Why is he letting Harvey do this?

Alfred: He went down to the press conference.

Rachel Dawes: I know. He just stood by.

Alfred: Perhaps both Bruce and Mr. Dent believe that Batman stands for something more important than the whims of a terrorist, Miss Dawes. Even if everyone hates him for it. That's the sacrifice he's making. He's not being a hero. He's being something more.

Rachel Dawes: Yeah, you're absolutely right. Letting Harvey take the fall for this is not heroic at all. You know him better than anyone.

Alfred: I do.

[She holds out an envelope]

Rachel Dawes: Will you give this to him for me? When the time is right?

Alfred: How will I know?

Rachel Dawes: It's not sealed.

[The two of them share a heartfelt hug]

Rachel Dawes: Goodbye, Alfred.

Alfred: Bye, Rachel.

[In the police precinct Harvey is getting arrested and moved to another holding facility]

Harvey Dent: I didn't have time to talk this through.

Rachel Dawes: What are you doing?

Harvey Dent: They're transferring me to Central Holding. This is the Joker's chance, and when he attacks, the Batman will take him down.

Rachel Dawes: Listen. This is too dangerous.

Police lieutenant: We get this guy to County, he's their problem. The streets will be cleared, so let's go. The convoys stop for no reason.

[police gearing up in escort van]

SWAT 1: I hope you got some moves, pal.

Rachel Dawes: He's using you as bait. He doesn't know if he can get the Joker. He's failed so far.

Harvey Dent: How do you know what he's thinking?

Rachel Dawes: I- I just do. Anyway, this isn't just about you. What about the people depending on you to clean the city up and do it honorably and...[She gets interupted by Harvey kissing her]

Rachel Dawes: Harvey. Tell everyone the truth.

Harvey Dent: Heads, I go through with it.

Harvey Dent: This is your life. You can't leave something like that to chance.

Harvey Dent: I'm not.

[She sees both sides of the coin. They're both heads]

Rachel Dawes: (smiling) You make your own luck.

Cop: Hey, you wait like everybody else, pal.[Cop is shot by joker's goon]

Police Officer: What the hell is that? Obstruction ahead, obstruction ahead! Damn it! All units divert down onto Lower Fifth. I repeat, exit down. Exit down!

SWAT 2: Lower Fifth? We'll be like turkeys on Thanksgiving.

SWAT 1: Jesus. Come on, get us out of here. Let's go.

SWAT 1: Listen, we need backup. We've got company.

SWAT 2: We got trouble, guys.

SWAT 2: Lock and load!

SWAT 1: The hell was that?

Harvey Dent: These are built for that, right?

SWAT 3: He'll need something a lot bigger to get through this.

SWAT 1: What is that?

SWAT 1: What is that, a bazooka?

SWAT 1: I didn't sign up for this! Look out. Look out!

[Batman arrives in the batmobile driving the opposite direction]

Joker: (curiously)Hhmm

SWAT 1: Come on, let's go!

Joker: Harvey, Harvey, Harvey Dent. Oh, excuse me. I wanna drive.[joker steals the 18 wheeler to chase Havey inside the SWAT vehicle]

Tumbler AI: Scanning all systems. Scanning all systems.

SWAT 1: We gotta get topside. We need air support, now!

Joker: I like this job. I like it.

Tumbler AI: Damage catastrophic. Eject sequence initiated. Goodbye.

Helicopter Cop: We're on point, ready to give them some of their own medicine.

SWAT 1: That's what I'm talking about. Air cav.

Joker: Okay, rack 'em up. Rack 'em up, rack 'em up, rack 'em up.

SWAT 1: That's not good.

[The tail blade of the heli shatters several windows while it loses altitude]

SWAT 1: Okay, that's not good!

[The Joker laughs maniacally as he drives the truck)

Joker: Now, there's a Batman.

Joker: Ooh, you wanna play. Come on. Come on.

Joker goon: He missed!

Shotgun SWAT 1: You can't stop here. We're like sitting ducks!

Joker: Come on, come on.

Joker: Come on. Come on. I want you to do it, I want you to do it. Come on!

Joker: Come on.

Joker: Come on, come on. I want you to do it, I want you to do it. Come on, hit me. Hit me, hit me. Come on, hit me!

Joker: Hit me!

Joker: Come on, come on.

Joker: Could you please just give me a minute?

Gordon: We got you, you son of a bitch.

Harvey Dent: (shocked) Gor... (smiling) You do like to play things pretty close to the chest.

Gordon: We got him, Harvey.

Reporter: Mr. Dent! How does it feel to be the biggest hero in Gotham?

Harvey Dent: No, I'm no hero. Gotham's finest, they're the heroes.

Reporter: But you and your office have been working with the Batman all along.

Harvey Dent: No, but I trusted him to do the right thing.

Reporter: Which was?

Harvey Dent: Saving my ass.

Ramirez: All right, people, that's enough. Let him be. Let him be.

Harvey Dent: Thank you, detective. I've got a date with a pretty upset girlfriend.

Ramirez: I figured, counselor.

Reporter: Mr. Dent, sir, how about one for the front page, sir? Mr. Dent.

[In the gotham precinct]

Gordon: Stand away! All of you! I don't want anything for his Mob lawyer to use, you understand?

Mayor: Back from the dead?

Gordon: I, uh, couldn't risk my family's safety.

Mayor: What do we got?

Gordon: Nothing. No matches on prints, DNA, dental. Clothing is custom, no labels. Nothing in his pockets but knives and lint. No name. No other alias.

Mayor: Go home, Gordon. The clown'll keep till morning. Go get some rest. You're gonna need it. Tomorrow you take the big job. You don't have any say in the matter. Commissioner Gordon.

[The police force gives Gordon a standing ovation. After a moment, some of them looks towards the incarcerated Joker. He too is clapping while licking his lips. That night, Gordon returns home. Barbara opens the door, absolutely stunned. Then again, who wouldn't be in this scenario?]

Gordon: I'm sorry, I couldn't risk your safety.

[Back in precinct]

Police Officer: Look at these ugly bastards.

Criminal: I don't feel good.

Police Officer: You're a cop killer. You're lucky to be feeling anything below the neck.

Criminal: Please!

Police Officer: Step away from the bars!

Criminal: My insides hurt.

[In the Gordon household]

Jimmy: Did Batman save you, Daddy?

Gordon: Actually, this time... I saved him.

Gordon: Has he said anything yet?

[Ramirez shakes her head "no". Gordon enters the darkened interrogation room. The Joker is sitting at a table, cuffed by his wrists]

Joker: Evening, Commissioner.

[The police commissioner sits down, folds his hands and sighs]

Gordon: Harvey Dent never made it home.

Joker: Of course not.

Gordon: What have you done with him?

Joker: Me? I was right here.

[He holds up his cuffed wrists]

Joker: (pointing) Who did you leave him with? Hm? Your people? Assuming, of course, that they are still your people… and not Maroni's. Does it depress you, Commissioner, to know... just how alone you really are? Does it make you feel responsible for Harvey Dent's current predicament?

Gordon: Where is he?

Joker: What's the time?

Gordon: What difference does that make?

Joker: Well, depending on the time, he may be in one spot or several.

Gordon: If we're gonna play games...

[He undoes the clown's cuffs]

Joker: Mm-hmm.

Gordon: ...I'm gonna need a cup of coffee.

[The commissioner walks back to the door]

Joker: Ah... The "good cop, bad cop" routine?

Gordon: Not exactly.

[At the sound of a buzzer, the door is opened. When it closes, the lights are turned on, showing Batman was standing behind the Joker the whole time. He grabs the clown's head against the table. As the vigilante walks around it, the Joker grunts]

Joker: Never start with the head. The victim gets all fuzzy. He can't feel the next...

[Batman slams his hand down on the Joker's. Joker looks at it, nonplussed.]

Joker: See?

[Batman pulls up a chair and sits across from him.]

Batman: You wanted me. Here I am.

[Gordon joins his men, standing outside the room]

Joker: I wanted to see what you'd do.

[Then we go back inside.]

Joker: And you didn't disappoint. You let five people die. Then... you let Dent take your place. Even to a guy like me, that's cold.

Batman: Where's Dent?

Joker: Those Mob fools want you gone so they can get back... (twirling his fingers) to the way things were. But I know the truth. There's no going back. You've changed things. Forever.

Batman: Then why do you wanna kill me?

Joker: (laughing) I-I don't wanna kill you. What would I do without you? Go back to ripping off Mob dealers? No, no. No. No, you... You complete me.

Batman: You're garbage who kills for money.

Joker: Don't talk like one of them. You're not. Even if you'd like to be. To them, you're just a freak... like me. They need you right now. But when they don't, they'll cast you out. Like a leper. You see, their morals, their code... it's a bad joke. Dropped at the first sign of trouble. They're only as good as the world allows them to be. I'll show you. When the chips are down... these, uh, these civilized people, they'll eat each other.

[He leans back in his chair]

Joker: See, I'm not a monster. (leaning forward) I'm just ahead of the curve.

[He pulls the clown out of the chair and drags him over the table]

Batman: Where's Dent?!

Joker: You have all these rules, and you think they'll save you?

[Batman then proceeds to slam him against the wall. Some of the cops seem on edge, but Gordon holds up his hand]

Gordon: He's in control.

Batman: I have one rule.

Joker: Oh. Then that's the rule you'll have to break to know the truth.

Batman: Which is?!

Joker: The only sensible way to live is without rules. And tonight you're gonna break your one rule.

Batman: I'm considering it.

Joker: There's only minutes left, so you'll have to play my game if you wanna save one of them.

Batman: (confused, breathing heavily) "Them"?

Joker: You know, for a while there… (pulling himself up) I thought you really were Dent. The way you threw yourself after her.

[The Joker laughs and Batman snaps. While throwing the laughing clown on the iron table, Gordon runs to the door, trying to stop the vigilante]

Joker: Look at you go!

[Batman locks the door with one of the chairs, preventing Gordon from entering. It's personal now. Joker sits up and cracks his back]

Joker: (groans) Does Harvey know about you and his little bunny?

[The clown's head is slammed against the two-way mirror]

Batman: Where are they?!

Joker: Killing is making a choice.

[The Bat punches him in the face]

Batman: Where are they?!

Joker: Choose between one life or the other. Your friend the district attorney, or his blushing bride-to-be.

[His laughter only intensifies when the Bat decks him again]

Joker: You have nothing, nothing to threaten me with! Nothing to do, with all your strength!

[Batman grabs the clown by his shirt and pulls him up, filled with rage]

Joker: Don't worry, I'm gonna tell you where they are. Both of them. And that's the point. You'll have to choose. (thinking) He's at 250 52nd Street... and she's, uh, on Avenue X at Cicero.

[Upon hearing this info, Batman drops the clown and storms out of the room, joined by Gordon]

Gordon: Which one you going after?

Batman: Rachel!

[While the Batpod takes off, Gordon rallies his men towards the police cars]

Gordon: We're getting Dent! 250 52nd Street!

Rachel Dawes: Hello? Can anybody hear me? Hello?!

Harvey Dent: Rachel?

Rachel Dawes: Harvey. Oh, Harvey, thank God. Are you okay?

Harvey Dent: I'm all right. I'm in a... I'm in a warehouse. They got me wired to these oil drums.

Rachel Dawes: I am too. Harvey...

[Back to the interrogation room. The Joker sits on the floor, mumbling to himself]

Joker: I want... my phone call. I want it. I want it! I want my phone call!

Stephens: (guarding the door) That's nice.

Joker: How many of your friends have I killed?

Stephens: I'm a twenty-year man and I know the difference between punks who need a lesson in manners and the freaks like you who just enjoy it. And you killed six of my friends.

Joker: [mouths] Six?

Kilson: Please. My insides hurt!

Cage Guard: I don't really care. Back away.

Kilson: The boss said he'd make the voices go away. He said he'd go inside and replace them with bright lights... (laughs weezily) Like Christmas.

Cage Guard: You're out of your mind, pal. Back off!

[Kilson collapses to the floor, seizing up.]

Cage Guard: Medic to the holding tank. Come on. Get the door open. You guys, back off!

Rachel Dawes: Listen, we don't have a lot of time. They told me that only one of us was gonna make it and that they were gonna let our friends choose.

Harvey Dent: Okay, Rachel. It's gonna be fine. It's gonna be all right. They're coming for you.

Rachel Dawes: Listen to me. I'll help you. Just talk me through what's going on with you.

Rachel Dawes: Can you find something, anything, sharp?

Harvey Dent: I'm trying.

Rachel Dawes: What's...?

Harvey Dent: Shit.

Rachel Dawes: Harvey? Harvey, what's happening?

Gordon: (over the police radio) All available units, converge at 250 52nd Street.

Joker: Do you wanna know why I use a knife? Guns are too quick. (twirling his fingers) You can't savor all the... little... emotions. You see... in their last moments, people show you who they really are. So in a way, I knew your friends better than you ever did.

[He tauntingly tilts his head]

Joker: Would you like to know which of them were cowards?

[When he hears this, Stephens smiles and takes off his jacket]

[Police and doctor lift the shirt of the hurting criminal to see a large scare on his stomach]

Police Officer: What's that? Jeez.

Doctor: He's got some kind of... contusion.

Stephens: I know you're gonna enjoy this.

[The Joker cricks his neck]

Stephens: I'm gonna have to try and enjoy it even more.

[The joker has a broken peice of glass to Stephens neck and walks out of his into the main area]

Police Officers: Just put it down! Take it easy. Take it easy! Drop the weapon now!

Stephens: It's my own damn fault, just shoot him!

Police Officers: Let him go now! Drop it!

Joker: What? Sorry?

Police Officers: What do you want?!

Joker: I just want my phone call.

Joker: Shh, shh, shh...

Rachel Dawes: What...? What...? What's happening? Just talk to me, just for one second.

Police Officer: All right?

Joker: Right.

[Cut to doctor looking at the criminals stomach]

Police Officer: (frowning) Is that a... phone?

[BAM! The bomb tucked inside the perp detonates, killing the cops and other perps in the holding cell. The velocity knocks the cops in the other room off their feet. The Joker, who braced himself for the explosion, is the only one left standing]

Gordon: Mount the curb!

Rachel Dawes: Harvey, just in case... I wanna tell you something, okay?

Harvey Dent: Don't think like that. They're coming.

Rachel Dawes: I know they are, but I don't want them to.

Rachel Dawes: I don't wanna live without you, and I do have an answer for you. My answer is yes.

[Batman opens the door to find… Harvey, tied to his chair lying in the oil puddle]

Harvey Dent: No! No! No! Not me! Why are you coming for me?! No!

Harvey Dent: Rachel! Rachel!

Rachel Dawes: Harvey.

Harvey Dent: No! No! Rachel!

Rachel Dawes: Okay...

Harvey Dent: Rachel! No! No!

Rachel Dawes: Harvey, it's okay. It's all right. Listen. Somewh...

[The charges go off. 250 52nd Street is blown to pieces and Rachel along with it. The desperate commissioner tries to get to the building, but one of the cops he's with stops him]

Cop: No, commissioner!

Harvey Dent: Rachel! No!

[Avenue X is blown to bits. The explosion reaches Dent's head and, because of the oil, fire eats away at the right side of his face, body and suit. We cut back to the MCU. The Joker walks through the ravaged building towards Lau's holding cell, dangling with the keys]

Joker: Hello there.

Cop: Back at the MCU, the Joker's gone.

Gordon: With Lau? The Joker planned to be caught. He wanted me to lock him up in the MCU.

[The Joker has made his escape, hanging his head out the window of a police car like a dog. Back to the penthouse, Alfred reads the letter Rachel left behind. Her voice narrates the following montage: Batman, standing among the rubble of 250 52nd Street and finding Harvey's coin, the DA being carried into a hospital...]

Rachel Dawes: Dear Bruce, I need to be honest and clear. I'm going to marry Harvey Dent. I love him, and I wanna spend the rest of my life with him. When I told you that if Gotham no longer needed Batman, we could be together, I meant it. But now I'm sure the day won't come when you no longer need Batman.

[...and Batman visiting the sleeping Harvey to give him his coin back]

Rachel Dawes: I hope it does. And if it does, I will be there, but as your friend.

Batman: I'm sorry, Harvey.

Rachel Dawes: I'm sorry to let you down. If you lose your faith in me, please keep your faith in people. Love, now and always, Rachel.

[The butler puts the letter back in its envelope and puts it on a tray, along with some breakfast]

Alfred: Prepared a little breakfast.

[Bruce doesn't react. He just stares at his mask, which rests in his lap]

Alfred: Very well, then.

[As he's about to turn around…]

Bruce Wayne: Alfred?

Alfred: Yes, Master Wayne?

Bruce Wayne: Did I bring this on her? I was meant to inspire good... Not madness, not death...

Alfred: You have inspired good. But you spat in the faces of Gotham's criminals. Didn't you think there might be casualties? Things always get worse before they get better.

Bruce Wayne: But Rachel, Alfred...

Alfred: Rachel believed in what you stood for. What we stand for. Gotham needs you.

Bruce Wayne: No, Gotham needs its true hero... and I let that murdering psychopath blow him half to hell.

Alfred: Which is why, for now, they're gonna have to make do with you.

Bruce Wayne: (looking over to Alfred, heartbroken) She was gonna wait for me, Alfred. Dent doesn't know. He can never know.

[Upon hearing this, Alfred pulls the envelope off the tray. Bruce sees it]

Bruce Wayne: What's that?

Alfred: It can wait.

Bruce Wayne: That bandit... In the forest in Burma. Did you catch him?

Alfred: Yes.

Bruce Wayne: How?

Alfred: We burned the forest down.

[Dent then wakes up, tied to his hospital bed and the right side of his face being covered with bandages. He frantically breathes in and out, before he sees his lucky coin on the nearby medicin cabinet. He grabs it and looks at it. Shining, untouched. He remembers how he handed it to Rachel. He flips it... and sees that the other side has been burned black. He knows what it means. He cries, shakes and yells out in despair at the loss of his girlfriend. The next day, Alfred is watching a television broadcast, an interview between Reese and Mike Engel]

Mike Engel: He's credible, an M&A lawyer from a leading consultancy. He says he's waited as long as he can for Batman to do the right thing. Now he's taking matters into his own hands. We'll be live at 5 with the true identity of the Batman.

[The commissioner visits Dent in his hospital room. The bandages have been removed, but we don't see the injuries Dent has sustained… yet. Gordon sits down by Harvey's bedside]

Gordon: I'm sorry about Rachel. (beat) The doctor says you're in agonizing pain, but that you won't accept medication. That you're refusing to accept... skin grafts.

Harvey Dent: (whispering) Remember that name... you all had for me... when I was at Internal Affairs? What was it, Gordon?

Gordon: Harvey, I...

Harvey Dent: Say it. (outraged) Say it!

[And, after a moment of painful silence...]

Gordon: Two-Face. Harvey Two-Face...

[Dent turns his head, but we cut back to Gordon when the wounded man talks]

Harvey Dent: Why should I hide who I am?

[When we cut back to Dent, his head rests back on the pillow]

Gordon: I know you tried to warn me. I'm sorry. Wuertz picked you up. Was he working for them? Do you know who picked up Rachel?

[The man in the bed remains silent]

Gordon: Harvey, I need to know which of my men I can trust.

Harvey Dent: Why would you listen to me now?

Gordon: I'm sorry, Harvey.

[Now we see the effects of the fire on Dent's face. The right side of his face has been disfigured beyond recognition. Epidermis, lashes, wimpers, eyelids, lips, all gone]

Harvey Dent: No. No, you're not. Not yet.

[When the commissioner leaves Dent's hospital room, he is greeted by Maroni]

Maroni: This craziness, it's too much.

Gordon: Should've thought about that before you let the clown out of the box.

[He steps away from the gangster]

Maroni: You want him?

[Gordon turns around]

Maroni: I can tell you where he'll be this afternoon.

[We cut to Gotham Harbor. Inside of one of the boats, the Joker has built a mountain out of the dirty money, with a bound and gagged Lau at the top of it]

Chechen: (smiling) Not so crazy as you look.

Joker: I told you, I'm a man of my word.

[He slides down the money pile and walks up to the Chechen]

Joker: (looking around) Where is the Italian?

[The commissioner holds a briefing, he's trying to get the Joker]

Gordon: All tactical units will converge on the location in twenty minutes. I want auxiliary units to cover all possible getaway routes.

[At the boat, the Joker throws several bills towards the terrified accountant]

Lau: Please.

Chechen: Yo, Joker-man... What you do with all your money?

Joker: You see, I'm a guy of simple taste. (waving his arms) I enjoy, uh, dynamite, gunpowder...

[His accomplice nods, but then…]

Joker: (louder) ...and gasoline.

[...several of Joker's goons start to douze the money with gasoline]

Chechen: What the...

Joker: (raising his gun) A-pa-pa-pa... (walking up to the Chechen) And you know the thing that they have in common? They're cheap.

[The news broadcast is playing at Gordon's location, but he pays it no mind]

Caller: How much are they paying you to say who Batman is?

Gordon: This is our chance. I want Lau alive. The Joker, either way.

[It's only when Stephens, who has a bandaid on his neck where Joker's knife scratched him, speaks up that he sees it]

Stephens: Hey, Jim. Get a load of this.

Mike Engel: Let's take the next caller.

Caller: Harvey Dent didn't wanna give in to this maniac. You think you know better?

Reese: I think that if we could talk to Dent today, he may feel differently.

Mike Engel: And we wish him a speedy recovery. Because God knows, we need him now.

Chechen: You said you were a man of your word.

Joker: Oh, I am.

[He pulls the cigar out of his accomplice's mouth, breathes on it to keep the end burning]

Joker: I'm only burning my half.

[The Joker throws it to the pile, starting an inferno which incinerates Lau off-screen. The Chechen looks in despair at his burning riches]

Joker: All you care about is money. This town deserves a better class of criminal... and I'm gonna give it to 'em. Tell your men they work for me now. This is my city.

Chechen: (angry) They won't work... for a freak.

Joker: "Freak?" (drawing his knife) Why don't we cut you up into little pieces and feed you to your pooches?

[More goons arrive, grabbing the drug dealer from behind]

Joker: Hm? And then we'll see how loyal a hungry dog really is!

[He is dragged to parts unknown while the clown pulls out a phone]

Joker: It's not about money. It's about sending a message. (dialing a number) "Everything burns".

[He puts the phone to his ear and we cut to the receiver of the call: Mike Engel]

Mike Engel: Who is this?

Joker: I had a vision... of a world without Batman. The Mob ground out a little profit and the police tried to shut them down one block at a time. And it was so... boring. I've had a change of heart. I don't want Mr. Reese spoiling everything, but why should I have all the fun?

[The clown's face echoes through the studio. Reese seems terrified]

Joker: Let's give someone else a chance. If Coleman Reese isn't dead in sixty minutes, then I blow up a hospital.

Gordon: Call in every officer. Tell them to head to their nearest hospital and start evac and search. Call the transit authority, school board, prisons. Get every bus down to a hospital. The priority is Gotham General. Wheel everybody out of that place right now. (pointing) You, you and you, you come with me.

Police Officer: Where are we going, sir?

Gordon: To get Reese.

Bruce Wayne: I need you plugged in, checking Gordon's men and their families.

Alfred: Looking for?

Bruce Wayne: Hospital admissions.

Alfred: Will you be wanting the Batpod?

Bruce Wayne: In the middle of the day? Not very subtle.

Alfred: The Lamborghini, then.

Alfred: (to himself) Much more subtle.

Hospital Nurse: Excuse me. Let me through. Excuse me. Okay. Sir, could you help, please?

Police Officer: I'm gonna find a bus for him.

News Reporter: Sir? Commissioner, do you really think an ordinary citizen would try to kill this man?

News Reporter: Sir. Commissioner.

Gordon: Get the cars around the back!

News Reporter: Go. Keep rolling, Sam.

Bruce Wayne: I see O'Brien and Richards.

Alfred: No immediate family member admitted to a Gotham hospital.

Reese: They're trying to kill me.

Gordon: Well, maybe Batman can save you.

Hospital Cop: Davis, they got space. Bring him out. Davis?

Bruce Wayne: I saw Burns and Zachary.

Alfred: Nothing on them.

Bruce Wayne: And a patrolman I don't know.

Reese: Okay, so, what now? What do we do now? Where are we going?

Bruce Wayne: Send the information to Gordon.

Police Officer: Get out of here. Davis? Ma'am, we're gonna have to move him now.

Gordon: It's Berg, isn't it?

Berg: Commissioner.

Gordon: You okay, son?

[At the hospital, the Joker slowly lifts Dent's headboard. The disfigured DA wakes up]

Joker: (to himself) Cadang-cadang-cadang-cadang...

[When the clown removes his face mask, the enraged Dent tries to get hold of him, but his hands have been tied to the bed frame. The Joker sits down]

Joker: (breathes out, smiling) Hi.

[Eventually, Dent stops trying to get free. The Joker takes off his wig and runs his fingers through his real hair]

Joker: You know... I don't want there to be any hard feelings between us, Harvey. When you and… um, uh...

Harvey Dent: (furious) Rachel!

Joker: ...Rachel were being abducted, I was sitting in Gordon's cage. I-I didn't rig those charges.

Harvey Dent: Your men, your plan.

Joker: Do I really look like a guy with a plan? You know what I am? I'm a dog chasing cars. (shaking his hands) I wouldn't know what to do with one if I... caught it. You know? I just do things. The Mob has plans. The cops have plans. Gordon's got plans. You know... They're schemers. Schemers trying to control their little worlds. I'm not a schemer. I try to show the schemers how pathetic their attempts to control things really are. So... when I say... Ah. Come here.

[The clown holds Dent's head]

Joker: When I say that you and your girlfriend was nothing personal, you'll know that I'm telling the truth.

Gordon: I'm gonna need your weapon.

Berg: What?

[The young cop slowly lowers his gun, aiming at Reese's chest]

Berg: Why? Because my wife's in the hospital?

Gordon: Yeah, that'd be why.

[The Joker slowly unties Dent's wrists]

Joker: It's the schemers that put you where you are. You were a schemer, you had plans… and, uh... look where that got ya.

[Dent grabs the Joker by his chest. Meanwhile, Bruce is driving at full speed through Gotham, eventually reaching the junction where the police van is. He observes the situation. A trucker is staring at the van with a cold gaze in his eyes]

News Reporter: Police are taking every precaution urging people not to take matters into their own hands.

[Back at the hospital, the Joker wrestles himself out of Dent's grip, pinning him down]

Joker: I just did what I do best. (waving, sing-a-long tone) I took your little plan and I turned it on itself. (looking up) Look what I did to this city with a few drums of gas and a couple of bullets. Hm? You know… You know what I noticed? Nobody panics when things go "according to plan." Even if the plan is horrifying. If tomorrow I tell the press that, like, a gangbanger will get shot, or a truckload of soldiers will be blowing up, nobody panics. Because it's all part of the plan. But when I say that one little old mayor will die... well, then, everyone loses their minds.

[Dent breathes heavily, he seems to believe the Joker's words. The clown holds up a gun and hands it to Harvey]

Joker: Introduce a little anarchy. (arming the gun) Upset the established order and everything becomes chaos.

[He pushes the gun barrel against his own forehead]

Joker: I'm an agent of chaos. Oh, and you know the thing about chaos? (waving his finger) It's fair.

[Dent takes a few more breathes before he holds up his lucky coin. He shows the Joker the clear side...]

Harvey Dent: You live...

Joker: Mm-hmm…

[...and then the burned side]

Harvey Dent: You die.

Joker: Hmm… Now we're talking.

Berg: Mr. Reese...

[Gordon pushes the gun upwards, the bullet Berg fires hits the ceiling of the van, which crosses the junction. The man in the truck hits the gas, ready to ram the vehicle, but Bruce speeds up and cushions the blow with his Lamborghini. The Joker, alive and well, puts some alcohol on his hands and rubs it. Back at the junction, the commissioner joins the millionaire, who's sitting at the end of the car seat and rubbing against his neck]

Gordon: That's Mr. Wayne, isn't it? That was a very brave thing you did.

Bruce Wayne: Trying to catch the light?

Gordon: You weren't protecting the van?

Bruce Wayne: Why? Who's in it?

[Reese exits the van. He and Mr Wayne exchange a look, before the lawyer is taken away to safety]

Bruce Wayne: Don't you think I should go to the hospital?

Gordon: You don't watch a whole lot of news, do you, Mr. Wayne?

Joker: (whipsering explosion) Boom!

Gordon: Southeast. It's Gotham General. Did you clear the building?

Police Officer: Yeah.

Gordon: You must know how many were inside. You have patient lists, roll call.

Police Officer: Right now we're showing fifty people missing. One bus. The other buses were heading off to hospitals. I guess we missed one.

Gordon: What's your guess about where Harvey Dent is? Keep looking. And keep it to yourself. Anybody asks, we got him out. Get me the mayor's office on the line. We're gonna need the National Guard.

News Reporter: ...people are still missing, including GCN's own Mike Engel. I'm now being told that we're cutting to a video GCN has just received.

[The screen shows Engel, upside down and suspended in the air. A sheet where the words "Breaking News" have been painted on forms the background. The scared reporter reads his "report" from several sheets of paper, which one by one fall out of frame]

Mike Engel: I'm Mike Engel for Gotham Tonight. "What does it take to make you people wanna join in?" You failed to kill the lawyer. I've gotta get you off the bench and into the game.

Joker: Bench. Game.

Mike Engel: Come nightfall, this city is mine.

Joker: Mine.

Mike Engel: And anyone left here plays by my rules.

Joker: Rules.

Wayne Receptionist: Mr. Fox? Security is showing a break-in at the R&D Department.

Mike Engel: If you don't wanna be in the game... get out now.

Joker: Get out now.

Mike Engel: But the bridge-and-tunnel crowd are sure in for a surprise. Ha-ha... ha-ha...

[The clown turns the camera back to himself, giggling and ending the video. Cut to a bar. One of Gordon's men, Wuertz, is sitting there. The bartender looks over to the television. He and Wuertz are the only people there]

News Reporter: Gotham P.D. has shut down...

Bartender: Sweet Jesus.

News Reporter: ...the area's bridges and tunnels.

Bartender: Shouldn't you be out there? You know, doing something?

Wuertz: It's my day off.

Bartender: I gotta take a leak. Keep an eye out for me, will you?

[He leaves the scene. We then hear someone entering the bar]

Wuertz: Now what? Need someone to shake it for you?

Harvey Dent: Hello.

[The corrupt cop is shocked by who it is.]

Wuertz: Dent. Jesus, I thought you was dead...

Harvey Dent: (grabbing Wuertz's glass) Half.

[The disfigured DA takes the shot, wipes his chin and aims his gun at Wuertz]

Harvey Dent: Who picked up Rachel, Wuertz?

Wuertz: It must've been Maroni's men.

Harvey Dent: (slamming the table) SHUT UP! Are you telling me that you're gonna protect the other traitor in Gordon's unit?

Wuertz: I don't know, he never told me! Listen, Dent, I-I swear to God, I didn't know what they were gonna do to you!

[But Dent holds up his coin]

Harvey Dent: Huh. That's funny.

[He drops it on the table, it starts spinning]

Harvey Dent: Because I don't know what's gonna happen to you either.

[It's "tails". Harvey kills Wuertz. Cut back to the R&D department. Batman is standing behind the several small screens]

Batman: Beautiful, isn't it?

Fox: Beautiful… unethical... dangerous. You've turned every cell phone in Gotham into a microphone.

Batman: And a high-frequency generator-receiver.

Fox: You took my sonar concept and applied it to every phone in the city. With half the city feeding you sonar, you can image all of Gotham. This is wrong.

Batman: I've gotta find this man, Lucius.

Fox: At what cost?

Batman: The database is null-key encrypted. It can only be accessed by one person.

Fox: This is too much power for one person.

Batman: That's why I gave it to you. Only you can use it.

Fox: Spying on thirty million people isn't part of my job description.

Batman: This is an audio sample. If he talks within range of any phone in the city, you can triangulate his position.

Fox: I'll help you this one time. But consider this my resignation. As long as this machine is at Wayne Enterprises, I won't be.

Batman: When you're finished... type in your name.

[Batman leaves the room while Fox takes off his jacket, ready to take a seat]

Gordon: My officers are going over every inch of the tunnels and bridges, but with the Joker's threat, they're not an option.

Mayor: And land routes east?

Gordon: Backed up for hours. Which leaves the ferries with thirty thousand ready to board. I wanna use the ferries so I can get those prisoners off the island.

Mayor: The men you put away? Those aren't people I'm worried about.

Gordon: You should be. Whatever the Joker's planning, it's a good bet Harvey's prisoners are involved. I wanna get them out of here.

Mayor: So where is Harvey?

Gordon: We haven't found him.

Mayor: Oh, Jesus.

Mayor: How long can you keep this quiet?

[Maroni hobbles into his car, aided by his driver and another man who's violently pulled offscreen.]

Maroni: (to his driver) Don't stop for lights, cops, nothing.

[He leans back in his seat and goes bug-eyed. Another cut reveals Dent sitting beside him.]

Harvey Dent: Going to join your wife? You love her?

Maroni: Yes.

Harvey Dent: You ever imagine what it would be like to listen to her die?

Maroni: Look, take it up with the Joker. He killed your woman. He made you... like this.

Harvey Dent: The Joker's just a mad dog. I want whoever let him off the leash. I took care of Wuertz, but who was your other man inside Gordon's unit? Who picked up Rachel? Must have been someone she trusted.

Maroni: Look, if I tell you... will you let me go?

Harvey Dent: Can't hurt your chances.

Maroni: (smiling) It was Ramirez.

[Dent pulls up his coin and cocks his gun. Maroni seems worried]

Maroni: But you said-!

Harvey Dent: I said it couldn't hurt your chances.

[He flips it. It's heads]

Harvey Dent: You're a lucky man.

[He flips his coin again. This time, it's tails]

Harvey Dent: But he's not.

Maroni: Who?

[Dent fastens his seatbelt]

Harvey Dent: Your driver.

[He fires straight through the chair in front of him. The driver is killed, causing the car to veer to one side, driving up a ramp, flipping over and crashing, killing Maroni.]

Military Escort: Stand back.

Citizen: Hey, that ain't right. We should be on that boat.

Cop: You wanna ride across with them? Be my guest.

Ferry Driver: Sir, they've stopped their engines.

Spirit Captain: Right, get on the radio. Tell them we'll come back and pick them up once we dump the scumbags.

First Mate: Liberty, this is Spirit. Come in.

Ferry Driver: What the heck was that?

Police Officer: What the...?

First Mate: Liberty, come in, please. This is Spirit. Come in.

[Radio chatter our the ferries communicating with each other plays]

Liberty, we have the same thing. We've lost both engines. Liberty, come in.

Batman: Fox. There's something going on on the ferries.

Spirit Captain: Get down to the engine room now.

Police officer: Hey, buddy, what's happening?

First Mate: Captain, we got a hundred barrels down there rigged to blow. And this.

Spirit Captain: Oh, my God.

First Mate: Looks like some kind of detonator.

Spirit CaptainWhy would they give us the detonator to our own bomb?

Joker: Tonight, you're all gonna be a part of a social experiment. Through the magic of diesel fuel and ammonium nitrate, I'm ready right now to blow you all sky-high.

Spirit Captain: (in the radio) Liberty, come in, over. (beat) It's dead.

Joker: If anyone attempts to get off their boat, you all die.

Fox: I'm zeroing in.

Joker: Each of you has a remote to blow up the other boat.

Fox: His voice is on the ferry, but it's not the source.

Fox: West.

Batman: I have the Joker's location. Prewitt Building. Assemble on the building opposite.

Joker: At midnight, I blow you all up. If, however, one of you presses the button, I'll let that boat live. So who's it gonna be? Harvey Dent's most-wanted scumbag collection or the sweet and innocent civilians? You choose. Oh, and you might wanna decide quickly, because the people on the other boat may not be quite so noble.

Military Escort: Stay back.

Businessman: Well, now, who are you to decide? We ought to talk this over, at least.

Mother: We don't all have to die. Those men had their chance.

Military Escort: We are not going to talk about this.

Crowd: (each sentence a different civilan)Why aren't we talking about it? They're talking over the same thing on the other boat. Let's put it to a vote. Yes!

Barbara: Hello?

Ramirez: Barbara, it's Anna Ramirez. Jim needs you to pack up and put the kids in the car right away.

Barbara: But the units outside...

Ramirez: Those cops can't be trusted. Jim needs you away from them as soon as possible. (shaky voice) I'll call them off for ten minutes, and you'll have to move fast.

Barbara: But where am I supposed to take them?

Ramirez: 250 52nd Sweet. Leave as soon as the patrol car pulls out.

Barbara: Okay.

[We see that Ramirez made the call to Mrs Gordon while being held at gunpoint by Two-Face]

Harvey Dent: She believe you?

[Ramirez nods]

Harvey Dent: It's because she trusts you. Just like Rachel did.

Ramirez: I didn't know...

Harvey Dent: Didn't know what they'd do? You're the second cop to say that to me. What exactly did you think they were gonna do?

Ramirez: (stammering, terrified) They got me early on... my mother's hospital bills...

Harvey Dent: Don't!

[He flips his coin. Ramirez seems troubled, consumed with guilt]

Ramirez: I'm sorry.

Harvey Dent: You live to fight another day, officer.

[He knocks Ramirez unconscious]

SWAT: We found the missing hospital bus.

Gordon: Then we have a hostage situation.

Gordon: It's a shooting gallery.

Gordon: Why would he choose a spot with such big windows?

SWAT: We have clear shots on five clowns. Snipers take them out, smash the windows, a team rappels in. Team moves in by the stairwells. Two, three casualties max. Let's do it.

Batman: It's not that simple. With the Joker, it never is.

Gordon: (frustrated) What's simple is, every second, those people on the ferries get closer to blowing...

Batman: That won't happen.

Gordon: Then he'll blow both of them up!

[Back on the Ferries]

Woman Civilian: We don't have time for paper ballots.

Military Escort: I want everybody to put their votes on this piece of paper. If anyone's got pens, pass it along.

Police: (in the background)Thank you. Anybody else? Coming through. Anybody else? Thank you.

Miltary Escort: We need to get these votes in quickly.

[Cut to prisoner ferry]

Crowd: Come on. What are you waiting for? Push the button! We're running out of time!

Batman: I need five minutes alone.

Gordon: No! There's no time! We have clear shots! Dent is in there with them! We have to save Dent!

Gordon: I... have to save Dent. (to his men) Get ready. Two minutes, then we breach.

Batman: Fox, I need picture.

Gordon: Hello?

Barbara: Jim, we're in trouble.

Fox: Okay, you got POV on alpha, omni on beta. Looks like clowns and hostages on two floors. There's a SWAT team on the stairwell. Another SWAT team on the roof.

SWAT: Line's clear.

Gordon: Barbara, calm down.

Barbara: (terrified) He has the kids!

[She is then interrupted by Dent]

Harvey Dent: Hello, Jim...

Gordon: Harvey? Where's my family?

Harvey Dent: Where my family died.

[The call is terminated]

SWAT: Blue team, acquire the target. Entry team, set your charge.

Batman: Fox, the SWATs are targeting the wrong people. The clowns are the hostages.

SWAT: Red team, go! Red team, go!

SWAT: Entry team, blow and go!

Batman: Don't move.

SWAT: Take the shot.

Fox: Those SWATs are coming in hot.

SWAT Team: (each sentence from a different SWAT member)Clowns, put down your guns. Drop your weapons! On the ground, now! Doctors, get down! Clear the line of fire. Drop your weap...

SWAT: Freeze! Stand down or you will be...

FOX: Look up. See those bad guys on the floor above? They're waiting to ambush the SWAT team coming up the elevator.

SWAT: Sixty seconds.

Liberty Captain: The tally is 140 against, 396 for.

Black woman: So go ahead. Do it.

Liberty Captain: We're still here. And that means they haven't killed us yet either.

SWAT: Go, go, go! Blue team, cover!

FOX: Trouble on the floor above.

SWAT Team: (Each line spoken by different SWAT members)Get down on the ground now! Freeze! Stop or we will shoot. We will shoot you. Drop the officer. Release the officer right now. Let him go now! On your knees!

Helicopter Cop: We got him. He's out of the game.

SWAT Team: (Each line spoken by a different SWAT member) Keep your hands in the air! Step away from the edge! Halt! Stay down! Don't move!

SWAT: Be advised. Clowns are hostages, doctors are targets.

Joker: Ah, you made it. I'm so thrilled.

Batman: Where's the detonator?

Joker: (to the dogs) Go get him.

[The dogs attack Batman. He quickly punches one of them away, but the others bring him down to the ground. The Joker lunges himself towards his adversary and rapidly punches him with his fists and a metal pipe]

SWAT: Put down your weapon! Don't move!

Burly Prisoner: You don't wanna die, but you don't know how to take a life. Give it to me. These men will kill you and take it anyway.

BusinessMan: No one wants to get their hands dirty. Fine. I'll do it. Those men on that boat? They made their choices. They chose to murder and steal. It doesn't make any sense for us to have to die too.

Joker: All the old familiar places...

Fox: Stand by.

SWAT: Red team, floor secure. Hostages are safe.

Burly Prisoner: Give it to me. You can tell them I took it by force. Give it to me, and I'll do what you should've did ten minutes ago.

[The man hands the prisoner the detonator, who then throws it out of the window. The crew and the other prisoners are stunned. The burly prisoner sits back down and bows his head]

Joker: We really should stop this fighting, otherwise we'll miss the fireworks.

Batman: (grunting, gasping for breath) There won't be any fireworks.

[But the Joker looks up, ready for the spectacle]

Joker: (waving his hand) And here... we... go.

[The bald man grabs the end of the remote, ready to trigger the bomb. As the Joker's theme pitches higher and higher, he seems to be struggling. His conscience is acting up. And then… he puts the remote back in the box. There is almost a sense of relief among the passengers when the man sits back down. At the Prewitt Building, the Joker, for once, seems flabbergasted. He looks over to a nearby clock, it's midnight]

Batman: What were you trying to prove? That deep down... everyone's as ugly as you?

[Confusion is replaced with frustration. The clown throws the metal pipe away]

Batman: You're alone.

[On the two boats, the clocks show that it's one past midnight. The passengers and crew are all confused]

Joker: Ugh… You can't rely on anyone these days. You gotta do everything yourself. Don't we?!

[He pulls out his detonator and arms it]

Joker: That's okay. I came prepared. It's a funny world we live in. (pointing towards his face) Speaking of which, you know how I got these scars?

Batman: No, but I know how you got these.

[He activates his shoulder pad. The spikes knock the remote out of the Joker's hands. He's briefly stunned. Batman grabs his nemesis and throws his off the floor. While the clown falls down to the concrete below, he cackles maniacally. But the Bat acts quick. He fires a rope out of his armpiece, which ties itself around the Joker's leg. The laughing stops. Batman slowly pulls the clown back up to his level]

Joker: Oh, oh... Oh, you... You just couldn't let me go, could you?

[The worn out vigilante sits down while the Joker continues. As he speaks, the camera turns 180 degrees, right side up]

Joker: This is what happens when an unstoppable force... meets... an immovable object. You... truly are... incorruptible, aren't you? Huh?! You won't kill me out of some misplaced sense of self-righteousness. And I won't kill you because you're just too much fun. I think you and I... are destined to do this forever.

Batman: You'll be in a padded cell forever.

Joker: Maybe we could share one. You know, they'll be doubling up, the rate this city's inhabitants are losing their minds.

Batman: This city just showed you that it's full of people ready to believe in good.

Joker: (waving his finger) Until their spirit breaks completely. Until they get a good look at the real Harvey Dent… Huh? And all the heroic things he's done.

[The Joker giggles when he sees that Batman is shocked]

Joker: You didn't think I'd risk losing the battle for Gotham's soul in a fistfight with you? No... You need an ace in the hole. Mine's Harvey.

Batman: What did you do?

Joker: I took Gotham's white knight and I... brought him down to our level. It wasn't hard. See, madness, as you know, is... like gravity. All it takes is a little push.

[The Bat rushes away while the Joker laughs and laughs. Several SWAT members arrive at the scene to take the clown into custody. We cut to the remains of 250 52nd Street, where Gordon is searching for his wife and children]

Gordon: Dent!

Harvey Dent: This is where they brought her, Gordon, after your men handed her over. This is where she died.

Gordon: I know, I was here... trying to save her.

Harvey Dent: But you didn't.

Gordon: I couldn't.

Harvey Dent: Yes, you could've. If you'd listened to me. If you stood up against corruption, instead of doing your deal with the devil.

Gordon: I was trying to fight the Mob!

Harvey Dent: You wouldn't dare try to justify yourself if you knew what I'd lost! Have you ever had to talk to the person you loved most... tell them it's gonna be alright, when you know it's not? Well, you're about to know what that feels like, Gordon. Then you can look me in the eye and tell me you're sorry.

Gordon: You're not going to hurt my family.

Harvey Dent: No. Just the person you love most. So... Is it your wife?

[Harvey points the gun at Barbara's head, cocking it.]

Gordon: Put the gun down, Harvey.

[Harvey moves it to his daughter.]

Gordon: Harvey, put down the gun. Please. Please, Harvey. Please.

[He moves to Gordon's son.]

Gordon: Oh, goddamnit, will you stop pointing that gun at my family?!

[Harvey gets a smile, pulling his son away.]

Barbara: No!

Harvey Dent: We have a winner.

Barbara: No, Jim, stop him!

Gordon: Harvey!

[Harvey pulls the boy directly in front of him.]

Barbara: Don't let him...

Gordon: Harvey! I'm sorry! For everything! Please don't hurt my son.

[The sound of dogs catches Harvey's attention. Outside, a unit has gathered.]

Harvey Dent: You brought your cops?

Gordon: All they know is there's a situation. They don't know who or what. They're just creating a perimeter.

Harvey Dent: You think I wanna escape from this?! There is no escape from this!

[Then another voice rips through the darkness]

Batman: You don't wanna hurt the boy, Harvey.

Harvey Dent: It's not about what I want, it's about what's fair! You thought we could be decent men in an indecent time. But you were wrong. The world is cruel. And the only morality in a cruel world... (lifting his lucky coin) is chance. Unbiased. Unprejudiced. Fair. His son's got the same chance she had. Fifty-fifty.

Batman: What happened to Rachel wasn't chance. We decided to act. We three.

Harvey Dent: Then why was it me who was the only one who lost everything?

Batman: (sad) It wasn't...

Harvey Dent: The Joker chose me!

Batman: Because you were the best of us. He wanted to prove that even someone as good as you could fall.

Harvey Dent: (a broken man) And he was right.

Batman: You're the one pointing the gun, Harvey. So point it at the people responsible!

Harvey Dent: Fair enough. You first.

[Dent flips the coin. It lands on "tails". Dent shoots and Batman tumbles to the ground. Harvey holds the gun up to his head.]

Harvey Dent: My turn.

[Harvey flips. It lands on "heads". He seems oddly disappointed but lowers the gun to Jimmy's head anyways.]

Gordon: Harvey, you're right. Rachel's death was my fault. Please don't punish the boy. Please, punish me.

Harvey Dent: I'm about to. Tell your boy he's gonna be alright, Gordon. Lie... like I lied.

Gordon: (whispering) It's going to be alright, son.

[Harvey flips but Batman tackles him off the ledge, taking Jimmy with them. Barbara screams in terror. The coin lands "heads" up. Gordon runs over to the edge where Batman hangs, Jimmy safely in his grasp. Dent lies motionless on the floor. Batman hands Gordon his son before his grip slips. He joins Dent on the ground.]

Jimmy: Dad? Daddy, is he okay?

Gordon: Thank you.

Batman: (looking down) You don't have to thank me.

Gordon: Yes, I do. (also looking down) The Joker won.

[Harvey Dent lies on the ground. Dead, his neck has been broken by the fall]

Gordon: Harvey's prosecution, everything he fought for... undone. Whatever chance you gave us at fixing our city dies with Harvey's reputation. We bet it all on him. The Joker took the best of us and tore him down. People will lose hope.

Batman: They won't. They must never know what he did.

Gordon: Five dead? Two of them cops? You can't sweep that...

Batman: No. But the Joker cannot win. Gotham needs its true hero.

Gordon: No.

Batman: (panting) You either die a hero... or you live long enough… to see yourself become the villain. I can do those things, because I'm not a hero, not like Dent. I killed those people. That's what I can be.

Gordon: No, no, you can't. You're not!

Batman: I'm whatever Gotham needs me to be.

[He hands his friend a police radio]

Batman: Call it in.

[A montage is started: the commissioner gives a speech, an eulogy for Harvey Dent...]

Gordon: A hero. Not the hero we deserved, but the hero we needed. Nothing less than a knight... shining.

[...Gordon and his team, destroying the Bat Signal...]

Gordon: They'll hunt you.

Batman: You'll hunt me. You'll condemn me. Set the dogs on me.

[...and Lucius Fox typing in his name on the machine he used to track the Joker, destroying it]

Batman: Because that's what needs to happen. Because sometimes... the truth isn't good enough. Sometimes people deserve more. Sometimes people deserve to have their faith rewarded.

Jimmy: Batman? Batman! Why's he running, Dad?

Gordon: Because we have to chase him.

[Back at the perimeter]

Cop: Okay, we're going in! Go, go! Move!

[Gordon's son stares to where Batman has disappeared]

Jimmy: He didn't do anything wrong.

Gordon: Because he's the hero Gotham deserves, but not the one it needs right now. So we'll hunt him...

[Batman's theme kicks back in as he makes his way to the Batpod, driving it away, chased by dogs and cops]

Gordon: Because he can take it. Because he's not a hero. He's a silent guardian, a watchful protector.

[Batman drives his Batpod up to a slope. Street lights surround him]

Gordon: A dark knight.